// Node types: "center", "convicted", "suspicious", "possibly"
// Single source of truth — index.html reads from this file

const graphData = {
    nodes: [
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // CORE OPERATIONS RING
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"epstein",label:"Jeffrey Epstein",type:"center",radius:32,
            agency:"CENTRAL NODE",role:"Financier · Sex Trafficker · Intelligence Asset",status:"DECEASED — FOUND DEAD IN CELL",networth:"$577M (at death)",
            intelRole:"Convicted sex offender and suspected intelligence asset who ran a multi-decade sexual blackmail operation. Former US Attorney Alexander Acosta told the Trump transition team Epstein 'belonged to intelligence' and to 'leave it alone.' Properties contained hidden cameras. His wealth had no traceable legitimate origin.",
            epsteinLink:"He is the center. Every node connects through documented visits, financial transfers, court filings, flight logs, or victim testimony.",
            significance:"Despite hundreds of victims and dozens of men named under oath, only Epstein and Maxwell were ever prosecuted. The 2008 Non-Prosecution Agreement immunized all co-conspirators by name. His death in federal custody — with broken cameras and sleeping guards — ensured he never testified.",
            desc:"Jeffrey Epstein was a college dropout hired at 20 to teach math at the elite Dalton School by OSS officer Donald Barr. He moved to Bear Stearns, then into private finance under the sole patronage of Les Wexner, who gave him power of attorney, a $77M Manhattan townhouse, and control of ~$1.4B in assets. He operated from properties in Manhattan, Palm Beach, New Mexico, Paris, and his private island (Little St. James, USVI). He cultivated relationships with heads of state, royalty, billionaires, intelligence officials, and scientists — offering access, funding, and underage girls. Victims numbered in the hundreds.",
            evidence:"Convicted 2008 Florida (secret NPA). Re-arrested July 2019 federal sex trafficking charges. Found dead Aug 10, 2019 MCC New York — ruled suicide, disputed by Dr. Michael Baden (findings consistent with homicidal strangulation). Hidden cameras in multiple properties. Black book with 1,500+ names. Flight logs documenting hundreds of passengers. $577M estate. Shell companies across multiple jurisdictions. Over 40 victims identified by FBI.",
            link:"Every investigation into Epstein was blocked, delayed, or neutered. The 2008 NPA was illegal under the Crime Victims' Rights Act. The SDNY case was terminated by his death. No client list has ever been released. His financial records remain sealed."},

        {id:"maxwell_g",label:"Ghislaine Maxwell",type:"center",radius:24,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION / TERRAMAR PROJECT",role:"Co-Conspirator · Primary Recruiter · Convicted",status:"CONVICTED — 20yr sentence",
            intelRole:"Daughter of confirmed triple intelligence agent Robert Maxwell (Mossad/KGB/MI6). Primary operator of Epstein's recruitment and grooming pipeline. Convicted December 2021 on five federal counts including sex trafficking of a minor.",
            epsteinLink:"Epstein's most intimate partner and operational co-conspirator from approximately 1991 until his death. She recruited, groomed, and delivered victims. She maintained the social cover that gave Epstein access to elite circles.",
            significance:"The only person besides Epstein ever criminally charged. Her trial was notable for what was NOT allowed — the defense was barred from presenting an intelligence defense, and the client list was never entered into evidence. She has never named names.",
            desc:"Ghislaine Maxwell is the youngest daughter of Robert Maxwell, the media baron confirmed as a Mossad, KGB, and MI6 asset who died under mysterious circumstances in 1991. After her father's death and the collapse of his empire, she moved to New York and began her relationship with Epstein. She served as his social fixer, introducing him to Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton, and dozens of other powerful figures. Multiple victims testified she directly participated in abuse, recruited girls as young as 14, and trained victims in how to service Epstein and his associates.",
            evidence:"Convicted Dec 2021 on five federal counts. Victim testimony from Annie Farmer, Kate, Jane, Carolyn, and Virginia Giuffre. Photographs with victims. Flight logs showing hundreds of trips. Property records (Epstein purchased homes for her). TerraMar Project (ocean charity) used as cover. Found hiding in New Hampshire under alias.",
            link:"Maxwell is the firewall. She knows every name, every visit, every transaction. Her silence — maintained through conviction and sentencing — suggests either extraordinary loyalty or extraordinary leverage being applied."},

        {id:"kellen",label:"Sarah Kellen",type:"center",radius:22,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION",role:"Executive Assistant · Scheduler · Named Co-Conspirator",status:"GRANTED IMMUNITY — never charged",
            intelRole:"Operational nerve center of the trafficking enterprise. Scheduled victims across four properties and two continents. Named federal co-conspirator. Granted full immunity. Has never spoken publicly or been deposed.",
            epsteinLink:"Managed Epstein's daily abuse schedule, maintained the black book, coordinated all flight manifests, and was physically present during abuse. Palm Beach PD identified her as the person who most frequently arranged underage girls' visits. Phone records showed hundreds of calls to victims, many minors.",
            significance:"The most important living witness who has never been compelled to testify. Her immunity ensured that the person with the most granular operational knowledge could never be forced to name Epstein's clients. The immunity didn't protect Kellen. It protected everyone she could name.",
            desc:"Sarah Kellen ran the schedule. For nearly a decade she called the girls, told them when to come, what to wear, which room. She did this across Manhattan, Palm Beach, New Mexico, and the island. Hundreds of calls to victims — many minors — confirmed by phone records.\n\nShe maintained the black book. She coordinated every flight. She was physically present during abuse. Multiple victims confirmed this under oath.\n\nThe US government named her a co-conspirator and gave her immunity in the same document. The 2008 NPA made her testimony legally unobtainable — no prosecutor could threaten her with prison, so no prosecutor could compel her to talk. Judge Marra ruled the NPA illegal in 2019. Nothing changed. No one revoked the immunity. No grand jury was convened.\n\nShe married NASCAR driver Brian Vickers in 2013. She now designs luxury apartments in Manhattan under the name Sarah Kellen Vickers.\n\nShe has never made a public statement. She has never been deposed. She could reconstruct the complete client list from memory — every name, every date, every property. That was her job. The immunity deal ensured she would never have to. That was its purpose.",
            evidence:"Named co-conspirator in 2008 NPA. Victim testimony from multiple women describing scheduling role (Palm Beach PD records, federal filings). Phone records: hundreds of calls to victims including minors. Black book custodian. Flight manifest coordinator. Physically present during abuse per victim statements. Immunity signed by Acosta's office. NPA ruled illegal by Judge Marra (2019). Never arrested, charged, deposed, or compelled to testify. Married Brian Vickers 2013. Operates SLK Interiors, New York.",
            link:"She scheduled children for rape. She kept the master list. She managed every flight. She was in the room. The government called her a co-conspirator and gave her immunity in the same document. She now designs luxury apartments in Manhattan. The immunity was ruled illegal. No one has revoked it. She has never been asked a single question."},

        {id:"marcinkova",label:"Nadia Marcinkova",type:"center",radius:14,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION",role:"Trafficked Victim Turned Participant · Named Co-Conspirator",status:"GRANTED IMMUNITY",
            intelRole:"Originally trafficked from Eastern Europe as a teenager, allegedly 'purchased' by Epstein from her family. Transitioned from victim to participant in the abuse of other girls. Named co-conspirator granted immunity.",
            epsteinLink:"Brought into Epstein's orbit as a minor, reportedly purchased from her family in the former Yugoslavia. Victims testified she participated in their abuse at Epstein's direction.",
            significance:"Marcinkova represents the most disturbing aspect of the grooming pipeline — a trafficked child who was conditioned into becoming a perpetrator. Her immunity deal ensured this pattern was never fully investigated.",
            desc:"Nadia Marcinkova (now Nadia Marcinko) was brought to the United States from the former Yugoslavia as a teenager. Epstein reportedly told others he had 'purchased' her from her family. Multiple victims testified that Marcinkova was present during and participated in their abuse. She was named as a co-conspirator in federal documents but received immunity under the 2008 NPA. She subsequently obtained a pilot's license, became a licensed pilot, and changed her name. She has never publicly discussed her time with Epstein.",
            evidence:"Named co-conspirator in NPA. Multiple victim depositions describing her participation. Immigration records. Epstein's own statements about 'purchasing' her. Changed identity post-immunity. Currently operates as a pilot.",
            link:"Marcinkova's trajectory — from purchased child to immunized co-conspirator to free woman with a new identity — encapsulates how the system protected everyone except the victims."},

        {id:"groff",label:"Lesley Groff",type:"center",radius:14,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION",role:"Executive Assistant · Logistics · Named Co-Conspirator",status:"GRANTED IMMUNITY",
            intelRole:"Managed all travel logistics, property coordination, and flight bookings for Epstein's operation across multiple continents. Named co-conspirator who had complete visibility into the movement of victims and associates.",
            epsteinLink:"Epstein's longest-serving assistant. Booked every flight on the Lolita Express, managed every property, coordinated every visit. She was the logistical infrastructure of the trafficking operation.",
            significance:"Groff is the person who could reconstruct the complete timeline — who went where, when, with whom. Her immunity ensures that reconstruction never happens through compelled testimony.",
            desc:"Lesley Groff served as Epstein's executive assistant for over two decades, managing the logistical infrastructure that enabled his trafficking operation. She booked flights on his Boeing 727 and Gulfstream, coordinated staff at his Manhattan townhouse, Palm Beach estate, New Mexico ranch, Paris apartment, and private island. She managed guest lists, travel arrangements, and property access. Victims described interacting with her as part of the scheduling apparatus.",
            evidence:"Named co-conspirator in 2008 NPA. Flight booking records across decades. Property management documents. Staff coordination records. Victim testimony. Immunity deal.",
            link:"Groff booked the flights. She knows every passenger on every trip to every property for twenty years. That information has never been compelled from her."},

        {id:"brunel",label:"Jean-Luc Brunel",type:"center",radius:16,
            agency:"MC2 MODEL MANAGEMENT",role:"Modeling Agent · European Recruiter · Charged",status:"DIED BEFORE TRIAL — found hanged in cell",
            intelRole:"French modeling agent who served as Epstein's primary European recruitment pipeline. Used the modeling industry to identify, recruit, and deliver young women and girls. MC2 Model Management was directly funded by Epstein.",
            epsteinLink:"Epstein bankrolled MC2 Model Management, which Brunel used to recruit models — many underage — from South America, Eastern Europe, and France. Brunel had his own apartment in Epstein's Manhattan townhouse. Flight logs show extensive travel together.",
            significance:"Brunel's death in a Paris prison cell — by hanging, before trial, with the same camera and guard failures as Epstein — is either an extraordinary coincidence or evidence that the pattern of silencing witnesses extends beyond US jurisdiction.",
            desc:"Jean-Luc Brunel was one of the most powerful modeling agents in the world, running MC2 Model Management with direct financial backing from Epstein. He was accused of using the modeling industry as a pipeline to recruit young women and girls for Epstein. Brunel had been accused of sexual assault by models since the 1980s. He was arrested in France in December 2020 on charges of rape of minors and sexual harassment. He was found hanged in his prison cell on February 19, 2022, before his trial could begin.",
            evidence:"MC2 funded by Epstein ($1M+ documented). Flight logs showing hundreds of shared trips. Victim testimony from Virginia Giuffre and others. French criminal charges. Multiple modeling industry complaints dating to 1980s. Apartment in Epstein's townhouse. Found dead in cell — same pattern as Epstein.",
            link:"Two key witnesses in the same case, in two different countries, both found hanged in their cells before they could testify. Both with surveillance failures. The statistical probability of this coincidence has never been formally assessed."},

        {id:"casablancas",label:"John Casablancas",type:"suspicious",radius:15,
            agency:"ELITE MODEL MANAGEMENT",role:"Modeling Mogul · Pipeline Architect",status:"DECEASED",
            intelRole:"Founder of Elite Model Management, the world's most powerful modeling agency. Documented history of sexual relationships with underage models. Close business partner of Jean-Luc Brunel. Together they built the modeling industry pipeline that fed victims into the Epstein network.",
            epsteinLink:"Business partner and close associate of Jean-Luc Brunel, who ran MC2 with Epstein's money. Casablancas and Brunel operated in the same modeling circles and shared the same pattern of targeting underage girls.",
            significance:"Casablancas represents the systemic use of the modeling industry as a trafficking pipeline — a pattern that predated Epstein and was industrialized by his funding of MC2.",
            desc:"John Casablancas founded Elite Model Management in 1972 and built it into the world's most powerful modeling agency, discovering or launching the careers of Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista, Stephanie Seymour, and dozens of others. He had documented sexual relationships with models as young as 15. He was Jean-Luc Brunel's mentor and closest business partner. The modeling industry pipeline — using the promise of careers to recruit vulnerable young women from developing countries — became a core recruitment mechanism for Epstein's network. Casablancas died in 2013.",
            evidence:"Documented underage relationships including with Stephanie Seymour (age 16). Brunel business partnership across decades. Elite Model Management complaints on file. Industry-wide pattern of exploitation documented by former models.",
            link:"The modeling industry was not incidental to Epstein's operation — it was structural infrastructure. Casablancas and Brunel built the pipeline. Epstein funded and weaponized it."},

        {id:"wexner",label:"Les Wexner",type:"center",radius:30,
            agency:"L BRANDS / THE LIMITED / MEGA GROUP",role:"Billionaire Retailer · Mega Group Co-Founder · Sole Known Client",status:"NAMED IN FILES — never investigated",networth:"$5.3B",
            intelRole:"Financial origin of the Epstein operation. Gave a college dropout power of attorney over ~$1.4B and a $77M townhouse for $0. Co-founded the Mega Group with Bronfman the same year — a secretive billionaire organization with documented Israeli intelligence ties.",
            epsteinLink:"1991 power of attorney. $77M townhouse for $0. Victoria's Secret weaponized as recruitment lure. Wexner Foundation paid Ehud Barak $2.3M. Maria Farmer assaulted at Wexner's Ohio compound in 1996. FBI took no action for twelve years.",
            significance:"No legitimate explanation exists for why a self-made billionaire gave everything to a man with no credentials. No forensic audit. No deposition. No congressional hearing. The most protected person in this story.",
            desc:"In 1991, Les Wexner — the most methodical billionaire in American retail — gave a college dropout with no degree, no license, and no traceable clients complete power of attorney over his finances. That same year he transferred a $77M Manhattan townhouse to Epstein for zero dollars. That house became the operational headquarters of a global sex trafficking and blackmail operation, wired with hidden cameras.\n\nThat same year, 1991, Wexner co-founded the Mega Group with Charles Bronfman — a secretive organization of the wealthiest Jewish-American businessmen with documented Israeli intelligence ties.\n\nVictoria's Secret was weaponized as a recruitment tool. Alicia Arden filed a police report in 1997 after Epstein groped her during what she thought was a casting call. Maria Farmer — the first person to report Epstein to the FBI — was assaulted at Wexner's personal Ohio compound. The FBI did nothing for twelve years.\n\nThe Wexner Foundation paid former Israeli PM Ehud Barak $2.3M. Barak visited Epstein's townhouse 36+ times and co-invested with Epstein in Carbyne911 surveillance tech. Money flowed from Wexner through Epstein to the former head of Israeli military intelligence.\n\nAfter 2019, Wexner claimed Epstein 'misappropriated vast sums.' He didn't say how much. He didn't file a police report. He didn't sue. He didn't request an audit. That is not the behavior of a man who has been robbed. That is the behavior of a man who does not want the books opened.\n\nNo forensic accounting has ever been conducted. No subpoena issued. No grand jury convened. No congressional committee has called him to testify.",
            evidence:"Power of attorney document (1991). Deed transfer of $77M townhouse for $0. Mega Group co-founding with Bronfman (1991). Wexner Foundation $2.3M payment to Barak. Victoria's Secret recruitment complaints (Alicia Arden police report 1997). Maria Farmer assault at Wexner Ohio compound (1996 FBI report). FBI inaction 12+ years. Hidden cameras documented. Post-arrest 'misappropriation' claim with no evidence or civil suit. No forensic audit. No deposition. Ben-Menashe account. Flight logs. Black book.",
            link:"He gave a nobody a $77M house and control of $1.4 billion. The house became trafficking HQ. The first victim was assaulted on his property. His foundation paid millions to a man who visited the trafficking house 36 times. He said he was robbed and never filed a charge. No one has compelled him to answer a question under oath."},

        {id:"black",label:"Leon Black",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT",role:"Private Equity Billionaire · $158M in Fees",status:"STEPPED DOWN AS CEO",networth:"$14B",
            intelRole:"Paid Epstein $158 million in 'advisory fees' — a sum so extraordinary it defies any legitimate financial explanation. This was the single largest documented payment to Epstein from any individual. Stepped down as Apollo CEO after an independent review confirmed the payments.",
            epsteinLink:"$158M in fees paid to Epstein over approximately five years, primarily after Epstein's 2008 conviction. Black maintained the relationship was legitimate financial and tax advice. Independent review by Dechert LLP confirmed the payments but found 'no evidence' Black participated in criminal activity.",
            significance:"$158M is not an advisory fee. No financial advisor in history has commanded that rate. The Dechert review was commissioned by Apollo's board — the same board Black controlled. The question of what Black was actually paying for has never been independently investigated.",
            desc:"Leon Black co-founded Apollo Global Management, one of the world's largest private equity firms managing over $500B in assets. He paid Jeffrey Epstein approximately $158 million in advisory and tax planning fees, primarily between 2012 and 2017 — years after Epstein's conviction. The payments were structured through various entities and were not publicly disclosed until reported by the New York Times in 2019. An independent review by law firm Dechert LLP, commissioned by Apollo's board, confirmed the payment amount but found no evidence Black knew of or participated in Epstein's criminal activities. Black stepped down as Apollo CEO in March 2021 but remained as chairman before fully departing.",
            evidence:"$158M confirmed by Dechert LLP review. New York Times reporting. Apollo board investigation. Stepped down as CEO 2021. Estate planning and tax work cited as justification. Epstein visits to Apollo offices documented.",
            link:"You don't pay $158 million for tax advice. You pay $158 million for something you can't put on an invoice. Black has never been questioned under oath about what he received in exchange."},

        {id:"staley",label:"Jes Staley",type:"center",radius:24,
            agency:"JPMORGAN CHASE / BARCLAYS",role:"Senior Banker · Epstein's Primary Banking Relationship · Barclays CEO",status:"RESIGNED — FCA investigation",networth:"$120M",
            intelRole:"Human proof that the global banking system knowingly financed child sex trafficking. Maintained Epstein as a JPMorgan client through and after his conviction. ~1,200 emails. Prison visit. Yacht visit. 'Snow White' email never explained. When Staley left JPMorgan, the bank dropped Epstein immediately — one man kept the account alive.",
            epsteinLink:"~1,200 emails. Oversaw JPMorgan private banking during Epstein relationship (1998-2013). Overrode compliance flags. Prison visit. Yacht visit. 'Snow White' email. Account exited only when Staley departed. Later CEO of Barclays; resigned after FCA found he misrepresented the relationship.",
            significance:"$365M in JPMorgan settlements confirms the bank knew. 1,200 emails is not a banking relationship. 'Snow White' has never been decoded. The full email archive remains sealed.",
            desc:"Jes Staley ran JPMorgan's private banking division. Epstein was his client from 1998 to 2013 — fifteen years that continued uninterrupted through arrest, conviction, and sex offender registration.\n\nCompliance flagged the account multiple times. Every flag was overridden. The account stayed open.\n\nIn 2023 litigation, ~1,200 emails between Staley and Epstein were disclosed. The tone was not banker-to-client. It was intimate, familiar, enmeshed. Staley visited Epstein in jail. Epstein visited Staley on his yacht. One email references 'Snow White.' It has never been explained.\n\nWhen Staley left JPMorgan in 2013, the bank exited Epstein within months. Fifteen years of overridden compliance flags — then the one man who championed the relationship left, and Epstein was gone instantly. He was the relationship.\n\nDeutsche Bank picked Epstein up and later paid $150M in fines.\n\nStaley was then made CEO of Barclays. The FCA found he lied to Barclays' board about the Epstein relationship. He resigned. JPMorgan paid $365M in settlements — $290M to victims, $75M to the USVI.\n\nStaley has never been criminally charged. The full email archive remains sealed. 'Snow White' remains unexplained.",
            evidence:"~1,200 emails disclosed in 2023 JPMorgan litigation. Prison visit confirmed. Yacht visit confirmed. 'Snow White' email never explained. Compliance flags overridden. Account maintained 2008-2013 post-conviction. Staley departure triggered Epstein exit. Deutsche Bank took Epstein ($150M fine). Barclays CEO 2015. FCA investigation. Resigned Barclays Nov 2021. JPMorgan $290M victim settlement. $75M USVI settlement. $365M combined. No criminal charges. Full archive not public.",
            link:"1,200 emails. A prison visit. A yacht visit. 'Snow White.' Compliance said stop — he said continue. When he left, the bank dropped Epstein instantly. Then he was made CEO of another bank. $365M in settlements confirms JPMorgan knew. The emails have never been released."},

        {id:"dimon",label:"Jamie Dimon",type:"suspicious",radius:26,
            agency:"JPMORGAN CHASE",role:"CEO · Institutional Enabler",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$2.6B",
            intelRole:"CEO of JPMorgan Chase, which maintained Epstein as a private banking client from 1998 to 2013 — including five years after his 2008 sex offender conviction. Internal emails showed senior leadership was aware of Epstein's criminal history. JPMorgan paid $365M in settlements related to the Epstein relationship.",
            epsteinLink:"Oversaw JPMorgan during entire Epstein banking relationship. Internal compliance flagged the Epstein account multiple times. Epstein was not exited as client until 2013. Dimon testified he had no personal relationship with Epstein but could not explain why compliance flags were overridden.",
            significance:"JPMorgan is the largest bank in the world. Its decision to keep banking Epstein after his conviction — overriding internal compliance — required senior-level authorization. The $365M in settlements (victims + USVI) is the largest financial consequence any institution has faced for enabling Epstein, and it confirms institutional knowledge.",
            desc:"Jamie Dimon has been CEO of JPMorgan Chase since 2005. Under his leadership, the bank maintained Jeffrey Epstein as a private banking client from 1998 through 2013, including five years after Epstein's 2008 conviction. Internal compliance staff flagged the Epstein relationship multiple times, but the account was maintained. Jes Staley, then head of private banking, managed the relationship directly. In 2023, JPMorgan paid $290M to settle a class action by Epstein victims and $75M to settle with the US Virgin Islands — a combined $365M that represents the bank's admission it enabled the trafficking operation through financial services.",
            evidence:"$290M victim settlement (2023). $75M USVI settlement. Internal compliance flags documented in litigation. Epstein account maintained 2008-2013 post-conviction. Dimon deposition testimony. Staley email trail showing institutional knowledge.",
            link:"The largest bank in the world kept a convicted child sex trafficker as a client for five years after his conviction, overriding its own compliance department. $365M in settlements confirms they knew."},

        {id:"hoffenberg",label:"Steven Hoffenberg",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"TOWERS FINANCIAL CORPORATION",role:"Early Business Partner · Ponzi Scheme Co-Architect",status:"DECEASED (2022)",
            intelRole:"Epstein's first known business partner and the co-architect of the $475M Towers Financial Ponzi scheme — one of the largest financial frauds of its era. Hoffenberg served 18 years in federal prison. Epstein was never charged despite being named as co-architect. Hoffenberg publicly stated Epstein was protected by intelligence agencies.",
            epsteinLink:"Business partners at Towers Financial in the late 1980s. Co-architected the $475M Ponzi scheme. Hoffenberg took sole criminal responsibility while Epstein walked free. Hoffenberg later stated publicly that Epstein was an intelligence asset and was protected from prosecution.",
            significance:"The Towers Financial case is the origin story of Epstein's legal immunity. A $475M fraud — and only one partner went to prison. This established the pattern that would repeat with the 2008 NPA: Epstein was untouchable. Hoffenberg's claim that Epstein was intelligence-protected is corroborated by Acosta's 'belonged to intelligence' statement.",
            desc:"Steven Hoffenberg was a New York financier who partnered with Epstein at Towers Financial Corporation in the late 1980s. Together they orchestrated a $475 million Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors. When the scheme collapsed, Hoffenberg was arrested, tried, and sentenced to 18 years in federal prison. Epstein — despite being co-architect of the fraud — was never charged, never arrested, and never named as a defendant. Hoffenberg served his full sentence and, after release, publicly stated that Epstein was protected from prosecution because he was an intelligence asset. Hoffenberg was found dead in his apartment in August 2022 at age 77.",
            evidence:"$475M Ponzi scheme documented in SEC filings and federal case. Hoffenberg's 18-year sentence. Epstein never charged. Hoffenberg's public statements naming Epstein as co-architect. Hoffenberg's claims of intelligence protection. Found dead 2022.",
            link:"In a $475M fraud, one man got 18 years and the other got nothing. That's not luck. That's protection."},

        {id:"dershowitz",label:"Alan Dershowitz",type:"center",radius:22,
            agency:"HARVARD LAW SCHOOL",role:"Attorney · NPA Architect · Named by Victim",status:"SETTLED SUIT WITH GIUFFRE",networth:"$50M",
            intelRole:"Harvard Law professor who served as Epstein's personal attorney and was instrumental in negotiating the 2008 Non-Prosecution Agreement — the deal that gave immunity to all named co-conspirators and was later ruled to have violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act. Named by Virginia Giuffre under oath as a direct participant in abuse. Settled defamation lawsuit with Giuffre in 2024.",
            epsteinLink:"Defense attorney who negotiated the 2008 NPA with Alexander Acosta. The NPA immunized all co-conspirators — a provision Dershowitz personally advocated for. Named under oath by Virginia Giuffre as having abused her on Epstein's island and at other locations. Flight logs confirm travel on Epstein's planes. Settled with Giuffre in 2024, later claimed to 'regret' the settlement.",
            significance:"Dershowitz is simultaneously Epstein's lawyer and an accused participant — a dual role that represents an extraordinary conflict of interest. He designed the legal instrument (the NPA) that prevented prosecution of everyone in the network including, potentially, himself.",
            desc:"Alan Dershowitz represented Epstein during the 2008 federal investigation and was instrumental in negotiating the Non-Prosecution Agreement — the deal that gave Epstein 13 months in county jail with work release and granted immunity to all named and unnamed co-conspirators.\n\nVirginia Giuffre named Dershowitz under oath as having sexually abused her on multiple occasions at Epstein's properties. Flight logs confirm travel on Epstein's planes. Dershowitz vigorously denied all allegations and countersued.\n\nIn 2024, he settled the defamation suit with Giuffre. Then he publicly said he regretted settling.\n\nThe NPA was later ruled to have violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act by Judge Kenneth Marra. The immunity provision Dershowitz personally advocated for — protecting all co-conspirators — may have protected Dershowitz himself.",
            evidence:"Negotiated 2008 NPA (documented in federal records). Named under oath by Virginia Giuffre. Flight logs showing travel on Epstein planes. Settled defamation suit 2024. Publicly confirmed close relationship with Epstein. NPA later ruled to have violated Crime Victims' Rights Act by Judge Kenneth Marra.",
            link:"The man who designed the legal shield that protected Epstein's entire network was simultaneously accused by a victim of being a participant. He built the lock and may have needed it for himself."},

        {id:"starr",label:"Ken Starr",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"KIRKLAND & ELLIS / BAYLOR UNIVERSITY",role:"Former Solicitor General · Epstein Defense Attorney",status:"DECEASED (2022)",
            intelRole:"Hired by Epstein as defense attorney alongside Dershowitz. Used his political connections and former Solicitor General prestige to lobby DOJ officials and help secure the 2008 Non-Prosecution Agreement. The same man who pursued a president relentlessly over a consensual affair helped a child trafficker walk.",
            epsteinLink:"Part of Epstein's defense team alongside Dershowitz. Lobbied the DOJ and helped negotiate the NPA that shielded Epstein's co-conspirators from federal prosecution. His Kirkland & Ellis partnership connects him to the broader legal infrastructure protecting Epstein's network.",
            significance:"The man who investigated a president over a consensual affair later defended a sex trafficker and helped him escape federal prosecution. He was then placed as president of Baylor University, where he was removed for mishandling a sexual assault epidemic — demonstrating a consistent pattern of protecting powerful men from accountability.",
            desc:"Ken Starr was a former US Solicitor General and Independent Counsel best known for the Clinton-Lewinsky investigation that consumed Washington and nearly removed a president. After leaving independent counsel work, he joined Kirkland & Ellis — the same firm connected to Acosta and Barr's legal networks — and was hired by Epstein to lobby for the 2008 NPA. He used his DOJ relationships and political standing to advocate directly with federal prosecutors for the sweetheart deal that freed everyone. He later became president of Baylor University, where he was removed in 2016 during a sexual assault scandal in which the football program had allegedly covered up at least 17 assaults.",
            evidence:"Part of Epstein defense team (court records). Lobbied DOJ for NPA alongside Dershowitz. Clinton-Lewinsky investigation background. Kirkland & Ellis partnership. Removed from Baylor over sexual assault scandal oversight failures. Deceased September 2022.",
            link:"He hunted a president for a consensual affair. He helped a child trafficker avoid prison. He then presided over a university that hid gang rape. The pattern is the point."},

        {id:"boies",label:"David Boies",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"BOIES SCHILLER FLEXNER",role:"Attorney · Represented Both Epstein and Giuffre's Side",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$100M+",
            intelRole:"One of America's most prominent trial lawyers who represented interests on both sides of the Epstein case at different points — an extraordinary conflict that has never been formally resolved. His firm hired Black Cube, the Israeli private intelligence firm staffed by former Mossad operatives, to surveil, manipulate, and discredit Weinstein's accusers — the same playbook applied against Epstein's victims.",
            epsteinLink:"Represented Epstein in legal matters. Later his firm was involved in cases adverse to Epstein while simultaneously representing Weinstein using the same accuser-suppression infrastructure. Hired Black Cube (ex-Mossad operatives) through a side letter designed to keep the intelligence operation off Weinstein's official records.",
            significance:"Boies built the legal architecture that protected elite predators on both sides of the aisle. His firm's use of Israeli intelligence operatives to destroy rape victims reveals the merger of law firms, private intelligence, and institutional power into a single predator-protection machine.",
            desc:"David Boies is the chairman of Boies Schiller Flexner LLP and one of the most famous lawyers in America — Bush v. Gore, US v. Microsoft, the California same-sex marriage case. He had legal relationships touching both Epstein and, paradoxically, victims at different times. His firm hired Black Cube — a private intelligence firm founded by former Mossad and CIA operatives — to investigate and discredit Harvey Weinstein's accusers, using fake identities, psychological manipulation, and surveillance. The arrangement was exposed by Ronan Farrow. Boies initially denied approving the Black Cube contract. Documents proved he signed it.",
            evidence:"Legal representation of Epstein documented in court filings. Black Cube contract signed by Boies (Ronan Farrow, New Yorker). Conflict of interest spanning both sides of Epstein-related litigation. Boies Schiller involvement in Maxwell-adjacent matters. Boies's public denial contradicted by his own signature.",
            link:"He signed the contract hiring Israeli spies to stalk rape victims. He denied it. His signature was on the document. The legal system doesn't protect victims — it protects whoever can pay."},

        {id:"barr_d",label:"Donald Barr",type:"center",radius:15,
            agency:"DALTON SCHOOL / OSS",role:"OSS Officer · Headmaster · Hired Epstein",status:"DECEASED (2004)",
            intelRole:"Office of Strategic Services (OSS) officer — the World War II predecessor to the CIA. As headmaster of the Dalton School, he hired 20-year-old Jeffrey Epstein, a college dropout with no degree, to teach calculus and physics to the children of New York's elite. This hire is the origin point of Epstein's access to the upper class.",
            epsteinLink:"Hired Epstein at Dalton School in 1974 despite Epstein having no college degree and no teaching credentials. Dalton's student body included the children of New York's wealthiest families. His son William Barr would later serve as US Attorney General during Epstein's death in federal custody.",
            significance:"An intelligence officer placing a young man with no qualifications into the most elite prep school in New York is consistent with a recruitment and access-development pattern. This is how intelligence agencies create assets — by giving them proximity to power and watching what they do with it. The fact that his son oversaw Epstein's death in prison is either the most extraordinary coincidence in this story, or it is not a coincidence.",
            desc:"Donald Barr served in the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) during World War II — the predecessor organization to the CIA. He later became headmaster of the Dalton School, one of the most elite private schools in Manhattan. In 1974, he hired 20-year-old Jeffrey Epstein — a college dropout from Coney Island with no degree — to teach calculus and physics. Dalton's students included the children of New York's financial and social elite. This position gave Epstein his first access to the world he would spend the next forty years exploiting.\n\nDonald Barr also wrote a science fiction novel, 'Space Relations' (1973), about a planet where the ruling elite kidnap human beings and use them as sex slaves. Published the year before he hired Epstein.",
            evidence:"OSS service documented. Dalton School headmaster confirmed. Epstein hire confirmed (no degree, no credentials). 'Space Relations' novel (1973) — sexual slavery plot published year before Epstein hired. Father of AG Bill Barr. Epstein's Dalton position gave him access to Bear Stearns (parent of a Dalton student hired him).",
            link:"The first domino. An OSS officer hired a nobody into the most elite school in New York. That nobody built a sexual blackmail empire. The OSS officer wrote a novel about sex slavery the year before. The OSS officer's son oversaw the prison where it all ended. Coincidence requires faith."},

        {id:"acosta",label:"Alexander Acosta",type:"center",radius:17,
            agency:"US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR / SDFL",role:"US Attorney · Labor Secretary · NPA Signatory",status:"RESIGNED",
            intelRole:"As US Attorney for Southern District of Florida, signed the 2008 Non-Prosecution Agreement that gave Epstein a 13-month county jail sentence with work release and immunized all co-conspirators. Later told the Trump transition team that Epstein 'belonged to intelligence' and to 'leave it alone.' Appointed Labor Secretary by Trump despite — or because of — his role in the NPA.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed the NPA. Violated the Crime Victims' Rights Act by keeping victims in the dark. Told Trump transition team Epstein 'belonged to intelligence.' Appointed Labor Secretary. Resigned July 2019 after Epstein re-arrest brought renewed scrutiny.",
            significance:"Acosta's 'belonged to intelligence' statement is the closest any sitting US official has come to confirming Epstein was a protected asset. He signed the most consequential cover-up document in the history of this case. He was then rewarded with a cabinet position. That sequence — compliant prosecutor promoted to cabinet — is its own evidence.",
            desc:"Alexander Acosta served as US Attorney for the Southern District of Florida when his office negotiated the 2008 Non-Prosecution Agreement with Epstein's defense team. The NPA gave Epstein a 13-month county jail sentence with 12 hours/day work release, required registration as a sex offender, and — critically — granted immunity to all named and unnamed co-conspirators. The deal was structured in secret, in violation of federal law requiring victim notification. During the Trump transition, Acosta reportedly told the vetting team that he had been instructed that Epstein 'belonged to intelligence' and to 'leave it alone.' He was unable or unwilling to name who gave that instruction. Trump appointed him as Secretary of Labor in 2017. He resigned in July 2019 after Epstein's re-arrest.",
            evidence:"NPA document signed by Acosta. 'Belonged to intelligence' statement reported by Vicky Ward (confirmed by multiple sources). Crime Victims' Rights Act violation ruling by Judge Kenneth Marra. Resigned July 2019. Trump appointment despite NPA role. Victims kept deliberately uninformed of NPA — confirmed illegal.",
            link:"He was told Epstein belonged to intelligence. He signed the deal anyway. He got a cabinet job. He never said who told him to back off. That is the most important unanswered question in this entire case."},

        {id:"barr_w",label:"William Barr",type:"center",radius:28,
            agency:"US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE",role:"Attorney General · Oversaw Prison During Death",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"US Attorney General during Epstein's death at MCC New York on August 10, 2019. His father Donald Barr hired Epstein at Dalton School. Previously worked at the CIA during college. Oversaw the Bureau of Prisons when both cameras failed, both guards fell asleep, and the suicide watch was removed days before death.",
            epsteinLink:"AG during Epstein death. Father hired Epstein at Dalton (1974). Oversaw BOP. CIA employment during college. Kirkland & Ellis connections overlapping with Acosta and Starr. Fired SDNY prosecutor Geoffrey Berman during active Epstein investigation.",
            significance:"The Attorney General whose father gave Epstein his start in life oversaw the federal prison where Epstein died under circumstances that forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Baden described as consistent with homicidal strangulation. He declared it a suicide before the investigation was complete. He fired the prosecutor pursuing Epstein's network. The chain of connection — father hired Epstein, son killed the case — spans 45 years.",
            desc:"William Barr served as US Attorney General under Trump when Jeffrey Epstein was found dead in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center on August 10, 2019. His father, Donald Barr, had hired Epstein at the Dalton School in 1974. Barr previously worked at the CIA during college and served as AG under George H.W. Bush, developing a reputation for protecting executive branch interests at the expense of independent oversight.\n\nUnder his oversight of the Bureau of Prisons: both cameras outside Epstein's cell malfunctioned simultaneously. Both guards assigned to check on Epstein falsified their logs and fell asleep. Epstein — who had been placed on suicide watch after an earlier incident — was removed from suicide watch days before his death. Barr declared Epstein's death a suicide before any investigation was complete. He later fired SDNY US Attorney Geoffrey Berman, who was actively pursuing Epstein's network.",
            evidence:"AG during Epstein death. Father hired Epstein at Dalton (confirmed). CIA college employment documented. Both cameras failed. Both guards falsified records. Suicide watch removed pre-death. Declared suicide pre-investigation. Fired Berman June 2020 during active investigation. Kirkland & Ellis network ties. Baden forensic findings (homicidal strangulation consistent).",
            link:"His father hired Epstein. He oversaw the prison where Epstein died. The cameras broke. The guards slept. The suicide watch was already off. He called it suicide before the investigation started. He fired the prosecutor who was still looking. Every link in this chain goes through the same family."},

        {id:"robert_maxwell",label:"Robert Maxwell",type:"center",radius:26,
            agency:"MOSSAD / KGB / MI6 / MAXWELL COMMUNICATIONS",role:"Media Baron · Triple Agent · Ghislaine's Father",status:"DECEASED (1991)",
            intelRole:"Confirmed intelligence asset for Mossad, KGB, and MI6 simultaneously — a Cold War triple agent who used a global media empire as cover for intelligence operations. His death in 1991 falling from his yacht preceded the revelation that he had looted £440M from employee pension funds. He received a state funeral in Israel attended by the heads of Mossad and Shin Bet.",
            epsteinLink:"Father of Ghislaine Maxwell. Former Israeli military intelligence officer Ari Ben-Menashe identified Robert Maxwell as the person who recruited Epstein into Israeli intelligence operations. Maxwell is the origin of the entire intelligence architecture. His daughter inherited his social network, his operational methodology, and his handlers.",
            significance:"Robert Maxwell is where the Epstein story begins. Without the Maxwell family's intelligence connections, there is no Epstein intelligence operation. The question of what Ghislaine inherited from her father — beyond a social network — has never been fully examined in any court.",
            desc:"Robert Maxwell (born Ján Ludvík Hyman Binyamin Hoch) was a Czech-born British media baron who built Maxwell Communications Corporation into a global empire spanning newspapers, publishing houses, and data companies. He was confirmed as an asset of Mossad, KGB, and MI6 — a triple agent operating simultaneously across Cold War lines. He used his media properties as cover for intelligence operations and maintained relationships with heads of state and intelligence chiefs globally.\n\nHe died on November 5, 1991, after falling from his yacht (named Lady Ghislaine) near the Canary Islands. His death was ruled accidental drowning, though both murder and suicide theories persist among intelligence historians. After his death, it emerged he had stolen approximately £440 million from his companies' employee pension funds to prop up his collapsing business empire.\n\nHe received a state funeral in Israel attended by then-Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and the heads of Mossad and Shin Bet — an extraordinary honor for a private businessman, explicable only by his intelligence value.",
            evidence:"Confirmed Mossad asset (multiple intelligence sources including Seymour Hersh). KGB asset confirmed (Mitrokhin Archive). MI6 connections documented. State funeral attended by Mossad/Shin Bet chiefs. £440M pension theft confirmed post-death. Ben-Menashe testimony on Epstein recruitment. Lady Ghislaine yacht death. Murder investigated but not charged.",
            link:"A confirmed triple agent for Mossad, KGB, and MI6 who recruited Epstein into intelligence. Honored with a state funeral by Israel's intelligence chiefs. His daughter ran the operation. His KGB connections gave Russia access to the kompromat. The full scope of what he built has never been disclosed."},

        {id:"eva_dubin",label:"Eva Dubin",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"MODELING / PHILANTHROPY",role:"Former Model · Epstein Ex-Girlfriend · Dubin Family",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Swedish former model and physician who dated Epstein before marrying hedge fund billionaire Glenn Dubin. Maintained an unusually close relationship with Epstein after marriage, including allowing him unsupervised access to their children — access documented in court filings that has never been explained.",
            epsteinLink:"Dated Epstein before marrying Glenn Dubin. Continued social relationship with Epstein post-marriage for years. Court documents from Virginia Giuffre litigation revealed Epstein had unsupervised access to the Dubin children. A former household employee provided testimony about the ongoing arrangement.",
            significance:"The deliberate maintenance of a relationship with a known predator — including access to her own children — suggests a level of entanglement that goes beyond social loyalty. Her case illustrates how the Epstein network extended into domestic life.",
            desc:"Eva Andersson-Dubin is a Swedish-born former model and physician who dated Jeffrey Epstein before marrying hedge fund billionaire Glenn Dubin. She and her husband maintained an unusually close relationship with Epstein for years after his 2008 conviction. Court documents from the Virginia Giuffre litigation revealed that Epstein had unsupervised access to the Dubin children. A former household employee, Rinaldo Rizzo, provided testimony about the nature of the ongoing arrangement and Epstein's role in the household.",
            evidence:"Dating history documented. Continued post-marriage relationship through conviction. Court documents on unsupervised child access. Household employee Rizzo testimony. Named in Giuffre litigation and deposition.",
            link:"She dated the predator. She married a billionaire. She let the predator near her children. Her husband was named under oath. No investigation was opened. What the Epstein relationship provided to the Dubin household has never been established."},

        {id:"dubin",label:"Glenn Dubin",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"HIGHBRIDGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT",role:"Hedge Fund Billionaire",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$2.9B",
            intelRole:"Hedge fund billionaire named by Virginia Giuffre under oath as someone she was directed to have sexual contact with at Epstein's direction. His household employee Rinaldo Rizzo provided corroborating testimony. He maintained his relationship with Epstein through and after the 2008 conviction.",
            epsteinLink:"Named under oath by Giuffre. Wife Eva previously dated Epstein. Epstein had unsupervised access to Dubin home and children per court documents. Household employee Rizzo testimony. Post-conviction relationship maintained for years.",
            significance:"Named under oath by a trafficking victim. Corroborated by his own household employee. The Dubin case represents the clearest documented example of a named Epstein client maintaining the relationship post-conviction — and facing zero investigation.",
            desc:"Glenn Dubin is the co-founder of Highbridge Capital Management, a major hedge fund managing tens of billions in assets. His wife Eva previously dated Epstein. Virginia Giuffre named Dubin under oath as someone she was directed by Epstein to have sexual contact with. Rinaldo Rizzo, a former Dubin household employee, provided sworn testimony about Epstein sending a young woman to the Dubin residence. The Dubins maintained their relationship with Epstein after his 2008 conviction and sex offender registration.",
            evidence:"Named under oath by Giuffre (federal deposition). Rinaldo Rizzo household employee sworn testimony. Post-conviction relationship documented. Eva Dubin dating history. Court documents on Epstein access to Dubin children.",
            link:"Named under oath. His own employee corroborated. Never investigated. In a functioning justice system, that sequence is impossible. Here it happened."},

        {id:"nader",label:"George Nader",type:"center",radius:16,
            agency:"MIDDLE EAST BACKCHANNEL",role:"Convicted Pedophile · UAE-Saudi-Trump Backchannel",status:"CONVICTED — 10yr sentence",
            intelRole:"Lebanese-American businessman who served as the primary backchannel between the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and the Trump campaign and administration. Key Mueller probe witness and cooperator. Convicted twice — 1991 and 2020 — for child sexual exploitation. His case demonstrates that protected predators are not unique to Epstein: the same pattern of continued elite access despite known criminal history appears throughout the network.",
            epsteinLink:"Operated in the same nexus of intelligence, Gulf money, and child exploitation. Connected to Bannon, Barrack, MBS, and the Trump orbit documented in the Mueller probe. His operational profile — a serial child sex offender functioning as a high-level diplomatic intermediary — mirrors the Epstein pattern precisely.",
            significance:"A twice-convicted pedophile was the primary diplomatic channel between the Gulf monarchies and the American presidency. He had more access to power after his first conviction than before it. This is not incidental to his value — it is the mechanism. People with kompromat exposure are controllable. That is the intelligence utility of protected predators.",
            desc:"George Nader is a Lebanese-American businessman and long-term intelligence-adjacent operative who served as a key backchannel between the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and the Trump campaign and administration. He was a key cooperating witness in the Mueller investigation into foreign influence. He was convicted in 1991 of transporting child pornography. Despite this conviction, he maintained access to heads of state, intelligence services, the Obama administration, and ultimately the Trump White House. In 2020, he was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison for possessing child pornography and transporting a 14-year-old boy from Europe to the United States for sex.",
            evidence:"Mueller probe testimony and cooperation documented. UAE-Saudi backchannel role confirmed by multiple sources. 1991 child pornography conviction. 2020 federal conviction (10 years). Connected to Bannon, Barrack, MBS, UAE crown prince MBZ. Continued government access post-conviction documented.",
            link:"Convicted in 1991. Kept his access. Convicted again in 2020. The access was the product. A diplomat who can be blackmailed is a diplomat who stays loyal. Someone understood that and kept him close."},

        {id:"comey",label:"James Comey",type:"possibly",radius:22,
            agency:"FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION",role:"Former FBI Director",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"FBI Director 2013-2017. During his tenure, the Bureau possessed extensive evidence from the 2006-2008 Palm Beach investigation — victim testimony, flight logs, surveillance records — and took no meaningful federal action. His daughter Maurene Comey was later assigned to the SDNY prosecution team pursuing Epstein's network.",
            epsteinLink:"FBI Director while Bureau sat on comprehensive Epstein evidence from Palm Beach. No federal prosecution action during his entire tenure despite overwhelming documentation of interstate trafficking. Daughter Maurene Comey assigned to SDNY Epstein case — a conflict of interest that was never publicly reviewed.",
            significance:"The FBI under Comey had everything required to prosecute Epstein federally. The decade of inaction — from Palm Beach through the NPA and beyond — either reflects institutional failure at the highest level or institutional instruction. The Director's daughter ending up on the prosecution team is an anomaly that has never been explained.",
            desc:"James Comey served as FBI Director from 2013 to 2017. During his tenure, the FBI possessed extensive evidence from the original Palm Beach Epstein investigation — victim interviews, flight logs, witness testimony — yet no federal action was taken. The evidence had been gathered between 2006 and 2008 and was comprehensive enough to support federal trafficking charges. After Epstein's 2019 re-arrest and death, Comey's daughter Maurene Comey was assigned as one of the SDNY prosecutors on the case against Epstein's network. No conflict of interest review was publicly conducted.",
            evidence:"FBI Director during entire period of Bureau inaction on Epstein evidence (2013-2017). Bureau possessed complete Palm Beach investigation files. Daughter Maurene Comey on SDNY prosecution team. No documented conflict review. Bureau had evidence; took no action.",
            link:"The FBI had the evidence for over a decade. His daughter ended up on the prosecution team. The suspect died before trial. At every stage, the outcome protected the network."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // POLITICAL FIGURES
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"trump",label:"Donald Trump",type:"suspicious",radius:42,
            agency:"TRUMP ORGANIZATION / US PRESIDENCY",role:"Real Estate · US President · Mar-a-Lago",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$2.6B",
            intelRole:"Known Epstein associate from early 1980s through mid-2000s. Virginia Giuffre was recruited from Mar-a-Lago. A 1992 video shows Trump and Epstein at Mar-a-Lago partying together. Trump appointed both Acosta (NPA signatory) and Barr (son of Epstein's first patron) to cabinet positions overseeing justice.",
            epsteinLink:"1992 video at Mar-a-Lago. 2002 NY Magazine: 'He likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side.' 14 phone numbers in Epstein's black book. Giuffre recruited from Mar-a-Lago. Fell out mid-2000s reportedly over Palm Beach real estate dispute. Appointed Acosta as Labor Secretary. Appointed Barr as AG. Barr oversaw Epstein's prison death.",
            significance:"Trump's Epstein connections span decades and extend from personal association to cabinet appointments. The placement of Acosta (who gave Epstein the NPA) and Barr (whose father gave Epstein his start) at the top of the US justice apparatus during Epstein's re-arrest and death is either the most consequential coincidence in American legal history, or it is not a coincidence.",
            desc:"Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein were social associates in New York and Palm Beach from the early 1980s through the mid-2000s. A 1992 video shows them at a Mar-a-Lago party, with Epstein present as Trump surveys a group of women. In 2002, Trump told New York Magazine: 'I've known Jeff for fifteen years. Terrific guy. He's a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side.' Virginia Giuffre was recruited into Epstein's operation while working as a locker room attendant at Mar-a-Lago. Trump and Epstein reportedly fell out in the mid-2000s over a Palm Beach real estate dispute involving a property Epstein purchased. Trump later appointed Alexander Acosta — who signed the NPA — as Labor Secretary, and William Barr — whose father hired Epstein — as Attorney General.",
            evidence:"1992 party video (confirmed). 2002 NY Magazine quote. Giuffre recruited from Mar-a-Lago (sworn testimony). 14 phone numbers in black book. Acosta cabinet appointment. Barr cabinet appointment. Palm Beach real estate dispute documented.",
            link:"His resort was the recruitment site. His Labor Secretary signed the sweetheart deal. His Attorney General oversaw the prison death. His address was listed 14 times in the black book. At every point of institutional failure, a Trump appointment was present."},

        {id:"clinton",label:"Bill Clinton",type:"suspicious",radius:38,
            agency:"US PRESIDENCY / CLINTON FOUNDATION",role:"US President · 26+ Flights",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"26+ documented flights on Epstein's Boeing 727 per pilot logs — including trips where Secret Service protection was declined. Virginia Giuffre stated under oath that she saw Clinton on Epstein's private island. Epstein visited the Clinton White House. Clinton's travel patterns with Epstein have never been fully investigated.",
            epsteinLink:"26+ flights on the Lolita Express per pilot flight logs. Giuffre sworn statement placing Clinton on the island. Secret Service protection declined on some flights — meaning no federal record of those trips. Epstein visited Clinton White House. Clinton acknowledged flights but denied island visits.",
            significance:"A former US president flew 26 documented times on a sex trafficker's private plane, sometimes without the Secret Service agents who would have created federal records of his location. A trafficking victim placed him on the island under oath. No federal investigation has ever been opened into Clinton's relationship with Epstein.",
            desc:"Bill Clinton took at least 26 documented flights on Epstein's Boeing 727, known as the 'Lolita Express,' according to pilot flight logs. Virginia Giuffre stated under oath that she saw Clinton on Epstein's private island in the US Virgin Islands. Clinton's Secret Service protection was reportedly declined on some of these flights — declining Secret Service protection is highly unusual and results in no federal travel record. Epstein visited the Clinton White House. Clinton has acknowledged the flights but denied visiting the island or having any knowledge of criminal activity.",
            evidence:"26+ flights documented in pilot logs. Giuffre island statement (sworn deposition). Secret Service records showing protection declined on multiple trips. White House visitor logs showing Epstein visits. Clinton's public acknowledgment of flights.",
            link:"26 flights. No Secret Service on some trips — which means no federal record of where he went. A trafficking victim placed him on the island under oath. No investigation has ever been opened."},

        {id:"andrew",label:"Prince Andrew",type:"suspicious",radius:30,
            agency:"BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY",role:"Duke of York · Named by Victim",status:"SETTLED SUIT — stripped of titles",
            intelRole:"Introduced to Epstein by Ghislaine Maxwell. Photographed with his arm around 17-year-old Virginia Giuffre at Maxwell's London home. Named under oath as a direct participant in abuse on multiple occasions. Settled civil lawsuit for a reported £12M. Stripped of military titles and royal patronages by King Charles.",
            epsteinLink:"Introduced to Epstein by Maxwell circa 1999. Photograph with Giuffre (age 17) at Maxwell's Belgravia home. Named under oath as having abused Giuffre on multiple occasions including at the townhouse, on the island, and at Maxwell's London home. Flight logs. Stayed at Epstein properties. £12M settlement.",
            significance:"A member of the British royal family was photographed with a trafficking victim, named under oath, and paid £12M to settle rather than face examination in court — an amount that under UK law constitutes neither an admission nor an exoneration. The monarchy's response was institutional damage control. No criminal investigation was opened in any jurisdiction.",
            desc:"Prince Andrew, Duke of York, was introduced to Epstein by Ghislaine Maxwell around 1999. He was photographed with his arm around 17-year-old Virginia Giuffre at Maxwell's Belgravia townhouse — a photograph whose authenticity he has contested but never successfully challenged. Giuffre named Andrew under oath as having sexually abused her on multiple occasions across three locations. Andrew gave a catastrophic BBC Newsnight interview in November 2019 in which he denied the allegations, claimed he could not sweat due to a medical condition, and could not remember meeting Giuffre despite the photograph. He settled Giuffre's US civil lawsuit in February 2022 for a reported £12 million and was stripped of his military titles by his brother King Charles III.",
            evidence:"Photograph with Giuffre (age 17) at Maxwell London home. Named under oath in Giuffre deposition across three locations. £12M settlement. BBC Newsnight interview. Flight logs to Epstein properties. Maxwell introduction documented. Stripped of titles February 2022.",
            link:"The photograph exists. The oath exists. The £12M exists. The titles are gone. In any other context, that sequence ends in prosecution. Here it ends in a press release."},

        {id:"barak",label:"Ehud Barak",type:"suspicious",radius:28,
            agency:"ISRAELI GOVERNMENT / IDF",role:"Former PM · Defense Minister · Carbyne911",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$10M+",
            intelRole:"Former Israeli Prime Minister (1999-2001) and Defense Minister (2007-2013), with direct command authority over Israeli military intelligence (Aman) and indirect oversight of Mossad. Made 36+ documented visits to Epstein's Manhattan townhouse — including visits photographed by press where he shielded his face. Received $2.3M from the Wexner Foundation and $5M from an Epstein-linked fund. Co-invested with Epstein in Carbyne911, a surveillance technology startup.",
            epsteinLink:"36+ photographed visits to Epstein's townhouse. $2.3M Wexner Foundation payment. $5M from Epstein-linked fund. Carbyne911 co-investment with Epstein money. Named by Virginia Giuffre in depositions.",
            significance:"The former head of Israeli military intelligence visited a documented sex trafficking hub 36 times. He was photographed hiding his face. He received millions through Wexner-Epstein financial channels. He co-invested in surveillance technology with the trafficker. This is not a social acquaintance. This is the state-intelligence nexus made visible in photographs.",
            desc:"Ehud Barak served as Israeli Prime Minister from 1999 to 2001 and as Defense Minister from 2007 to 2013, giving him direct command authority over Israel's military intelligence directorate (Aman) and political oversight of Mossad. He was photographed entering Epstein's Manhattan townhouse on at least 36 occasions — sometimes in the company of young women, sometimes shielding his face from cameras. He received $2.3M from the Wexner Foundation and $5M from a fund connected to Epstein. He co-invested with Epstein in Carbyne911, a company that sells emergency-response surveillance technology to governments. Virginia Giuffre named Barak in her depositions.",
            evidence:"36+ visits photographed by press (documented). $2.3M Wexner Foundation payment (documented). $5M Epstein-connected fund (documented). Carbyne911 investment records. Giuffre deposition naming. Photographed with young women at Epstein townhouse on multiple occasions.",
            link:"36 visits. Millions in payments through Wexner-Epstein channels. Joint investment in surveillance tech. The former head of Israeli military intelligence photographed shielding his face outside a sex trafficker's home. What was discussed inside has never been compelled."},

        {id:"mitchell",label:"George Mitchell",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"US SENATE",role:"Senate Majority Leader · Middle East Envoy",status:"NAMED IN SUIT",
            intelRole:"Former US Senate Majority Leader and one of the most powerful Democrats of the 1990s. Named by Virginia Giuffre under oath in sworn deposition. His role as Middle East envoy under Obama placed him at the intersection of US foreign policy and the Maxwell-connected network.",
            epsteinLink:"Named by Giuffre in sworn federal deposition. Senate Majority Leader during peak Clinton-Epstein relationship period. Later served as Obama's Middle East Special Envoy.",
            significance:"When a trafficking victim names the Senate Majority Leader under oath, the expected outcome is a federal investigation. That investigation was never opened. The absence of investigation is itself the data point.",
            desc:"George Mitchell served as Senate Majority Leader from 1989 to 1995, one of the most powerful elected positions in the United States. He was the lead negotiator of the Good Friday Agreement in Northern Ireland and served as President Obama's Special Envoy to the Middle East from 2009 to 2011. Virginia Giuffre named Mitchell under oath in a sworn federal deposition as someone she was directed to have contact with through the Epstein network.",
            evidence:"Named in sworn Giuffre deposition (federal court filing). Senate Majority Leader confirmed. Middle East Special Envoy confirmed. No investigation opened.",
            link:"A Senate Majority Leader named under oath by a trafficking victim. No investigation opened. In this story, that is not surprising. That is the pattern."},

        {id:"richardson",label:"Bill Richardson",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"STATE OF NEW MEXICO / DOE",role:"Governor · Energy Secretary",status:"DECEASED (2023)",
            intelRole:"Former US Secretary of Energy under Clinton and Governor of New Mexico — the state where Epstein operated his Zorro Ranch, a 10,000-acre property where victims were trafficked. Named by Virginia Giuffre under oath. Richardson died in August 2023 before any legal proceeding compelled his testimony.",
            epsteinLink:"Named under oath by Giuffre. Governor of New Mexico during Epstein's Zorro Ranch operation. Epstein's New Mexico property sat within his political jurisdiction for years. His Energy Department background overlaps with Epstein's science philanthropy network.",
            significance:"The Governor of the state where Epstein trafficked victims at a ranch, named under oath by a victim. He died before he could be compelled to testify. The geographical and chronological overlap between his governorship and Epstein's New Mexico operations has never been formally examined.",
            desc:"Bill Richardson served as US Secretary of Energy under Clinton (1998-2001) and as Governor of New Mexico from 2003 to 2011. Epstein's Zorro Ranch — a 10,000-acre property in Stanley, New Mexico — was one of his primary trafficking locations, and it operated throughout Richardson's time as governor. Virginia Giuffre named Richardson under oath in federal deposition. Richardson denied all allegations. He died in August 2023.",
            evidence:"Named in sworn Giuffre deposition. Governor of New Mexico during Zorro Ranch operation confirmed. Energy Secretary confirmed. Died August 2023. No investigation concluded.",
            link:"The Governor of the state where Epstein had his ranch, named under oath. Died before any investigation reached him."},

        {id:"blair",label:"Tony Blair",type:"suspicious",radius:28,
            agency:"UK GOVERNMENT",role:"Former UK Prime Minister",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Former UK Prime Minister (1997-2007) named in Epstein's contact files. Met with Epstein after his 2008 conviction. His government's intelligence services were aware of Robert Maxwell's Mossad connections. His post-PM advisory career placed him in the same international financial circles as Epstein's network.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Post-conviction meetings documented. Operates in the same international political-financial circuit as Epstein associates including Mandelson, Sarkozy, and Middle East figures.",
            significance:"A post-PM meeting with a convicted sex offender is not a social error. By 2008, Epstein's conviction was public. Blair's continued contact was a choice.",
            desc:"Tony Blair served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1997 to 2007, one of the longest-serving Labour PMs. After leaving office he established a complex network of advisory businesses and foundations operating across the Middle East, Africa, and financial services. He is named in Epstein's contact files and had post-conviction contact with Epstein. His closest political associate Peter Mandelson is documented to have visited Epstein's island.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Post-conviction meetings documented. Mandelson island visit connection. International advisory network overlap.",
            link:"A former prime minister who knew what Epstein was — the conviction was public — and maintained contact anyway."},

        {id:"mandelson",label:"Peter Mandelson",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"UK GOVERNMENT",role:"Former Cabinet Minister · EU Commissioner",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"One of the most powerful figures in British politics over three decades — twice forced to resign from cabinet, twice rehabilitated. Named in Epstein's files and documented to have visited Epstein's private island per flight logs. His social network connects British politics, European institutions, Russian oligarchs (via Nat Rothschild and Deripaska), and the Maxwell circle.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Flight logs confirm island visit. Photographed with Epstein. Nat Rothschild connection links him to Deripaska and through that to the Maxwell-Russia intelligence thread.",
            significance:"Mandelson is the hub of a network that connects British politics, EU institutions, Maxwell's circle, and Russian oligarch money. His island visit — post-conviction — is documented in flight logs.",
            desc:"Peter Mandelson has been one of the central figures in British politics since the 1980s, serving in multiple cabinet roles under Blair and Brown, twice resigning and twice returning, then serving as EU Trade Commissioner. He was photographed with Epstein and is named in his files. Flight logs confirm he visited Epstein's private island. His social network is extraordinary in its breadth: he is a close associate of Tony Blair, connected to Nat Rothschild, who hosted him on a yacht with Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska — an event that generated a major scandal. The Deripaska connection runs to Putin, and through Maxwell's KGB history, back to the intelligence origin of the network.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Flight logs confirming island visit. Photographed with Epstein. Nat Rothschild-Deripaska connection documented (2008 Corfu scandal). Blair relationship.",
            link:"Island visit. Flight logs. Russian oligarch connection. Maxwell social circle. He is the thread that connects British politics to the Russian intelligence strand of this network."},

        {id:"sultan_brunei",label:"Sultan of Brunei",type:"suspicious",radius:30,
            agency:"BRUNEI",role:"Head of State",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan of Brunei and one of the wealthiest heads of state in the world, is named in Epstein's contact files and has independent trafficking allegations documented in the Shannon Marketic lawsuit of 1997. His appearance in the Epstein network places him within a documented pattern of wealthy men who accessed trafficked women through elite networks.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Shannon Marketic lawsuit (1997) alleged trafficking of American women to Brunei involving the Sultan. The Marketic case and the Epstein network operated in the same period with the same victim profile.",
            significance:"A sitting head of state with independent trafficking allegations appearing in the files of the world's most documented sex trafficker. The Marketic case was settled. The Epstein connection was never investigated.",
            desc:"Hassanal Bolkiah is the Sultan of Brunei, one of the world's wealthiest individuals and an absolute monarch. In 1997, former Miss USA Shannon Marketic filed a lawsuit alleging she was recruited for modeling work and instead trafficked to Brunei where she was held against her will and subjected to sexual exploitation by members of the royal family. The case was settled. The Sultan is named in Epstein's contact files. The two cases — Marketic and Epstein — represent the same model: wealthy men of extraordinary power accessing trafficked women through intermediaries, with settlement as the standard resolution.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Shannon Marketic lawsuit 1997 (settled). Head of state status providing legal protection from most jurisdictions.",
            link:"Independent trafficking allegations in 1997. In Epstein's contact book. The same model: powerful men, intermediaries, victims, settlements. Different cases — same pattern."},

        {id:"sultan_ahmed",label:"Sultan bin Ahmed",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"UAE",role:"UAE Royal",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Member of the UAE royal family named in Epstein's contact files. The UAE's role as a backchannel in the Trump administration — documented through George Nader and Tom Barrack — places UAE royals in the same network of influence-buying and intelligence operations that overlaps with Epstein's operation.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. UAE royal family with documented US influence operations through Nader and Barrack.",
            significance:"The UAE connection links Epstein's social network to the Gulf intelligence-influence operation documented in the Mueller probe.",
            desc:"Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi is a UAE royal named in Epstein's contact files. The UAE's systematic campaign to purchase influence in American politics — documented in the Mueller probe through George Nader (convicted pedophile) and Tom Barrack (charged as unregistered foreign agent) — places UAE royals in the same nexus of money, influence, and protected exploitation that characterizes the Epstein network.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. UAE royal family. Nader/Barrack UAE connection documented in Mueller probe.",
            link:"A UAE royal in Epstein's contact book, in a network where the UAE's American backchannel was a twice-convicted pedophile."},

        {id:"ferguson",label:"Sarah Ferguson",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY",role:"Duchess of York",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Former wife of Prince Andrew, Duchess of York. Accepted a £15,000 payment from Epstein — funneled through Prince Andrew — after Epstein's 2008 conviction and sex offender registration. The payment was made to help with her debts. Accepting money from a convicted sex offender is not a passive act.",
            epsteinLink:"£15,000 payment from Epstein channeled through Prince Andrew post-conviction. Documented financial relationship with the network after it was publicly convicted.",
            significance:"The payment came after Epstein was a registered sex offender. The Duchess of York needed money and her ex-husband provided it — from Epstein. That financial chain, and what it represents about the royals' ongoing relationship with Epstein post-conviction, has never been fully examined.",
            desc:"Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York, is the former wife of Prince Andrew. She had well-documented financial difficulties throughout the 2000s. In 2010, it emerged that she had accepted a £15,000 payment from Epstein, channeled through Prince Andrew — two years after Epstein's conviction as a sex offender. Ferguson publicly apologized, describing it as a 'gigantic error of judgment.' The payment illustrates the ongoing utility of the Epstein-Andrew relationship to the royal family, even after conviction.",
            evidence:"£15,000 payment documented and publicly acknowledged (2010 revelation). Channeled through Prince Andrew post-conviction. Ferguson public apology on record.",
            link:"She took money from a convicted sex offender, channeled through her ex-husband. Then she apologized. No one asked why Prince Andrew was still moving Epstein's money years after the conviction."},

        {id:"mette_marit",label:"Crown Princess Mette-Marit",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"NORWEGIAN ROYAL FAMILY",role:"Norwegian Crown Princess",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Crown Princess of Norway who met with Epstein multiple times after his 2008 conviction and sex offender registration. Her meetings with Epstein post-conviction represent a pattern consistent with other European royals and heads of state who maintained contact despite knowing his criminal record.",
            epsteinLink:"Multiple documented meetings with Epstein post-conviction. Part of the European royal circuit maintained by Maxwell and Epstein to provide social legitimacy and international access.",
            significance:"A crown princess meeting repeatedly with a convicted sex offender — post-conviction — illustrates the degree to which Epstein's social capital remained intact even after conviction. What he offered that brought royalty to his door has never been examined.",
            desc:"Crown Princess Mette-Marit of Norway met with Jeffrey Epstein on multiple documented occasions after his 2008 conviction. She subsequently apologized for the meetings, describing them as a mistake and saying she was not aware of the full extent of his crimes. The meetings, however, occurred after his conviction as a sex offender — information that was publicly available. Her case is consistent with a pattern of European royals and heads of state who continued to meet with Epstein despite his record.",
            evidence:"Multiple post-conviction meetings documented. Crown Princess confirmed the meetings and apologized. Norwegian royal family statement.",
            link:"She met with a convicted sex offender multiple times. Then apologized. The apologies are easier to find than the answers to why they met."},

        {id:"lajcak",label:"Miroslav Lajcak",type:"suspicious",radius:13,
            agency:"UNITED NATIONS",role:"UN General Assembly President",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Slovak diplomat who served as President of the UN General Assembly (2017-2018). Named in Epstein's contact files. His appearance in the network illustrates the degree to which Epstein had cultivated relationships at the highest levels of international diplomacy.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. UN General Assembly President during the same period Epstein was rebuilding his post-conviction social network.",
            significance:"The President of the UN General Assembly in the contact book of a convicted sex trafficker. The reach of the network into international institutions has never been mapped.",
            desc:"Miroslav Lajčák is a Slovak diplomat who has served in senior UN and EU roles, including as President of the UN General Assembly from 2017 to 2018. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His appearance in the network alongside heads of state, intelligence officials, and financiers illustrates the full international scope of Epstein's cultivated access.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. UN General Assembly President confirmed.",
            link:"The President of the United Nations General Assembly in the contact book. The network reached every institution on earth."},

        {id:"kissinger",label:"Henry Kissinger",type:"possibly",radius:34,
            agency:"US STATE DEPARTMENT",role:"Former Secretary of State · National Security Adviser",status:"DECEASED (2023)",
            intelRole:"Secretary of State and National Security Adviser under Nixon and Ford. The architect of Cold War realpolitik and one of the most consequential intelligence-connected figures in American history. Listed in Epstein's black book. His Cold War intelligence network overlaps with Robert Maxwell's confirmed intelligence connections across the same era.",
            epsteinLink:"Listed in Epstein's black book. Contemporaneous with Robert Maxwell's peak intelligence operations. CIA and State Department networks of the 1970s-90s are the same environment from which Epstein's intelligence connections emerged.",
            significance:"The architect of Cold War American foreign policy, who maintained intelligence relationships across six decades, in the contact book of a man described by a US Attorney as belonging to intelligence. The overlap between Kissinger's world and the Maxwell-Epstein world is structural, not incidental.",
            desc:"Henry Kissinger served as National Security Adviser (1969-1975) and Secretary of State (1973-1977) under Nixon and Ford, shaping American foreign policy during the Cold War's most consequential period. He maintained advisory and consulting relationships with governments and corporations globally for decades after leaving office. He died in November 2023 at age 100. He is listed in Epstein's black book. His Cold War intelligence world — the same world that produced Robert Maxwell as a triple agent — is the context in which the Epstein-intelligence connection was built.",
            evidence:"Listed in Epstein's black book. Secretary of State and NSA confirmed. Cold War intelligence network overlap with Maxwell era.",
            link:"The man who designed the Cold War in Epstein's black book. Maxwell was a Cold War triple agent. Epstein 'belonged to intelligence.' These three points describe a triangle whose full dimensions remain classified."},

        {id:"king_charles",label:"King Charles III",type:"possibly",radius:40,
            agency:"BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY",role:"King of United Kingdom",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"King of the United Kingdom. His brother Prince Andrew's Epstein connections are documented and settled. His own documented close friendship with Jimmy Savile — confirmed through hundreds of FOI-released personal letters — connects him to the other major British establishment predator of the 20th century. The Crown's response to both cases has been institutional management, not accountability.",
            epsteinLink:"Brother Andrew's Epstein connections documented (photograph, named under oath, £12M settlement). Charles's personal correspondence with Jimmy Savile — the most prolific documented predator in British history — released under FOI covering decades of friendship. Two of the most documented predators in British history, connected to the same institution.",
            significance:"King Charles is connected to both Epstein (through Andrew and Maxwell's social circle) and Savile (directly, through decades of correspondence). The British establishment that protected Savile for fifty years is the same establishment that produced Andrew's Epstein connections. Charles is not accused of personal wrongdoing. He is the head of the institution that protected both.",
            desc:"King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) maintained a documented personal friendship with Jimmy Savile for decades, revealed through hundreds of letters released under Freedom of Information laws. Savile was posthumously confirmed as having abused over 450 victims across BBC studios, NHS hospitals, and children's homes over fifty years — protected throughout by the very establishment of which Charles was the most prominent member. Charles's brother Andrew was photographed with Epstein's trafficking victim Virginia Giuffre, named under oath, and paid £12M to settle her civil lawsuit. The monarchy's response to both scandals followed the same template: denial, minimization, institutional protection, and eventual quiet admission.",
            evidence:"FOI-released Charles-Savile correspondence (hundreds of letters over decades). Andrew photograph with Giuffre. Andrew £12M settlement. Maxwell social circle connection. British establishment protection pattern documented in both Savile and Epstein cases.",
            link:"He wrote personal letters to Savile for decades. His brother paid £12M to a trafficking victim. Two of the most documented predators of the 20th century, both connected to the same Crown. The institution that protected Savile is the institution that produced Andrew."},

        {id:"putin",label:"Vladimir Putin",type:"possibly",radius:44,
            agency:"RUSSIAN FEDERATION / FSB",role:"President of Russia",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"President of Russia and former KGB officer. Robert Maxwell was a confirmed KGB asset — meaning Russian intelligence had institutional access to Maxwell's operations, including his recruitment of Epstein. The Epstein operation is, structurally, a kompromat factory: compromising material on world leaders, collected systematically. Kompromat is Russian intelligence's defining tradecraft. The overlap between the Maxwell-KGB connection and the Epstein-blackmail operation represents the clearest possible intelligence inheritance.",
            epsteinLink:"Maxwell confirmed KGB asset. Ben-Menashe states Maxwell recruited Epstein. Maxwell's KGB connection means Russian intelligence had visibility into the operation's origins. Kompromat pattern is consistent with FSB/KGB tradecraft. Named in files.",
            significance:"If Epstein's operation collected compromising material on Western leaders as an intelligence asset, Russian intelligence — through the Maxwell-KGB connection established before Epstein's operation began — had potential access to that material. That is not a conspiracy theory. That is the documented inheritance of confirmed intelligence relationships.",
            desc:"Vladimir Putin served as a KGB foreign intelligence officer before entering politics, becoming President in 2000. Robert Maxwell was confirmed by the Mitrokhin Archive as a KGB asset — meaning the KGB had institutional knowledge of and access to Maxwell's operations during his lifetime. Maxwell recruited Epstein into intelligence, according to Ari Ben-Menashe. The Epstein operation collected compromising material on powerful men. KGB/FSB tradecraft is built on exactly this model — kompromat as leverage. The chain from Putin's KGB to Maxwell's KGB operation to Epstein's blackmail network is documented at its first link and inferential at its last. The middle is missing. That is either coincidence or design.",
            evidence:"Maxwell confirmed KGB asset (Mitrokhin Archive). Putin KGB background confirmed. Kompromat methodology consistent with FSB tradecraft. Named in files. Ben-Menashe Maxwell-Epstein recruitment account.",
            link:"Maxwell worked for the KGB. The KGB built the operation Epstein inherited. Epstein's operation collected what kompromat requires. Russia's fingerprints are on the origin. Whether they stayed on the product is the question no investigation has ever asked."},

        {id:"mbs",label:"Mohammed bin Salman",type:"possibly",radius:36,
            agency:"SAUDI ARABIA",role:"Crown Prince",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Crown Prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia. The CIA assessed with high confidence that MBS personally ordered the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. His backchannel to the Trump administration ran through George Nader — a twice-convicted pedophile. Tom Barrack, charged as an unregistered UAE and Saudi agent, also connected MBS's orbit to Trump. Named in Epstein files.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in files. Gulf intelligence connections. George Nader served as his backchannel to Trump. Nader is a convicted pedophile operating in the same nexus of protected exploitation and intelligence access as Epstein.",
            significance:"The crown prince whose CIA-assessed murder of a journalist was covered up by the US government, whose American backchannel was a convicted pedophile, is named in the files of the most documented sex trafficker in history. The Gulf money that flows through this network has never been audited.",
            desc:"Mohammed bin Salman became de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia in 2017 and Crown Prince officially in the same year. The CIA assessed with high confidence that he personally ordered the murder and dismemberment of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in 2018. His administration's backchannel to the Trump campaign and White House ran primarily through George Nader, who was convicted in 2020 for child sex trafficking. Tom Barrack — Trump's inaugural committee chair, charged as an unregistered foreign agent for Saudi Arabia and the UAE — provides a second connection. MBS is named in Epstein's files.",
            evidence:"Named in files. CIA assessment on Khashoggi murder. Nader backchannel documented in Mueller probe. Barrack UAE/Saudi agent charges. Gulf money flows through network.",
            link:"His American backchannel was a convicted child sex trafficker. He ordered a journalist's murder. He's in the files. The Gulf money that runs through this network has never been traced."},

        {id:"netanyahu",label:"Benjamin Netanyahu",type:"possibly",radius:32,
            agency:"STATE OF ISRAEL",role:"Prime Minister",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Israel's longest-serving Prime Minister and former Mossad liaison officer. He had direct political oversight of Mossad during Epstein's peak operational years. His close associate Ehud Barak visited Epstein's townhouse 36+ times. The Wexner-Mega Group infrastructure — which funded Barak and connected to Epstein — has documented ties to Israeli intelligence and Netanyahu's political network.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in files. Barak connection (Barak visited Epstein 36+ times). Wexner/Mega Group ties to Israeli political infrastructure. Mossad oversight during Epstein's operational period. Robert Maxwell connection through Maxwell's confirmed Mossad relationship.",
            significance:"The Prime Minister who oversaw the intelligence service most consistently linked to the Epstein operation — by multiple former intelligence officers — is named in the files. His closest political rival and former ally Barak was photographed entering Epstein's home dozens of times. The full scope of Israeli state involvement in the Epstein operation has never been examined by any outside authority.",
            desc:"Benjamin Netanyahu is Israel's longest-serving Prime Minister, with multiple terms from 1996 to present (with breaks). He served as Mossad liaison to the United States earlier in his career and has had direct political oversight of Mossad throughout his premierships. His political rival and longtime associate Ehud Barak made 36+ documented visits to Epstein's Manhattan townhouse. The Wexner Foundation — which gave Epstein his financial foundation and paid Barak $2.3M — has deep connections to Israeli political infrastructure. Ari Ben-Menashe, a former Israeli military intelligence officer, has publicly stated that the Maxwell-Epstein operation was a Mossad blackmail program. Netanyahu is named in Epstein's files.",
            evidence:"Named in files. Barak connection (36+ Epstein visits). Wexner/Mega Group ties. Mossad oversight during operational period. Robert Maxwell confirmed Mossad asset. Ben-Menashe account of Mossad blackmail operation.",
            link:"He ran the intelligence service. His associate visited the trafficker 36 times. The man who funded the trafficker funded his political infrastructure. Two former intelligence officers say it was a Mossad operation. He is in the files."},

        {id:"lutnick",label:"Howard Lutnick",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"CANTOR FITZGERALD / US COMMERCE DEPT",role:"CEO · Commerce Secretary",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$1.5B",
            intelRole:"Trump's Secretary of Commerce and former chairman of Cantor Fitzgerald. December 2012 emails directly contradict his public claim of cutting ties with Epstein 'decades ago.' He and his wife accepted an invitation to visit Epstein's private island by yacht — with their children — more than four years after Epstein's conviction as a registered sex offender.",
            epsteinLink:"2012 island visit by yacht with wife and children confirmed by DOJ-released emails. 2011 correspondence about drinks and a building project. His own emails prove his public statements were false.",
            significance:"A sitting US Cabinet member made demonstrably false public statements about his relationship with a convicted sex trafficker. His own emails, released by the DOJ in 2026, prove the lie. He continues to serve in the cabinet.",
            desc:"Howard Lutnick served as chairman and CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald, the financial services firm. He is currently Trump's Secretary of Commerce. After Epstein's arrest in 2019, Lutnick publicly claimed he had cut all ties with Epstein 'decades ago.' Emails released in the 2026 DOJ document disclosure show that in December 2012 — four years after Epstein's conviction — Lutnick and his wife accepted an invitation to visit Epstein's private island in the US Virgin Islands, arriving by yacht with their children. A 2011 email documents social correspondence about drinks and a building project. His public statements are directly refuted by his own words.",
            evidence:"2012 island visit confirmed by DOJ-released emails. 2011 social correspondence. Public claim of cutting ties 'decades ago' contradicted by documentary evidence. Currently serving as Commerce Secretary.",
            link:"He said he cut ties decades ago. His own emails say he visited the island in 2012. He is the Commerce Secretary. Nobody has asked him to reconcile those two facts under oath."},

        {id:"burkle",label:"Ron Burkle",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"YUCAIPA COMPANIES",role:"Supermarket Billionaire · Clinton Associate",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$2B",
            intelRole:"Supermarket billionaire and major Democratic donor who was one of Bill Clinton's closest post-presidential associates — traveling with Clinton and co-investing in various ventures. Named in Epstein's contact files. The Clinton-Burkle-Epstein triangle connects the former president's post-White House social world to the trafficking network.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Extremely close Clinton associate — traveled with Clinton on multiple occasions. Clinton-Epstein-Burkle overlap documented.",
            significance:"Burkle's proximity to Clinton and his presence in Epstein's contact book places him at the intersection of post-presidential access and the trafficking network. What Epstein offered to men in Clinton's orbit has never been established.",
            desc:"Ron Burkle is the founder of Yucaipa Companies and one of America's wealthiest supermarket and retail investors. He was one of Bill Clinton's closest post-presidential associates, traveling with him frequently and co-investing in various projects. He is named in Epstein's contact files. The overlap between Clinton's post-presidential social world and Epstein's network is documented through multiple figures — Burkle, Spacey, Tucker — all of whom appear in Epstein's records.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Clinton association extensively documented. Travel with Clinton confirmed. Democratic donor of record.",
            link:"Clinton's closest post-presidential associate, in Epstein's contact book. Clinton flew on Epstein's plane 26 times. The social world Clinton moved through after the White House overlapped substantially with Epstein's network."},

        {id:"barrack",label:"Tom Barrack",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"COLONY CAPITAL",role:"Trump Inaugural Chair · UAE Agent Charges",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Trump's inaugural committee chairman and longtime personal friend. Charged in 2021 as an unregistered foreign agent for the UAE and Saudi Arabia — using his access to Trump to advance Gulf state interests. Connected to George Nader (convicted pedophile, UAE backchannel) and Epstein's network. Acquitted in 2022.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Connected through the Trump-Nader-UAE backchannel documented in the Mueller investigation. Barrack's UAE/Saudi agency and Nader's UAE backchannel operated in parallel.",
            significance:"The man who ran Trump's inaugural committee was simultaneously operating as an unregistered agent for the UAE and Saudi Arabia. George Nader — a convicted pedophile — was the parallel UAE backchannel. Barrack is in Epstein's files. The Gulf money and intelligence connections run through all three men.",
            desc:"Tom Barrack is a real estate billionaire and longtime personal friend of Donald Trump who chaired the 2017 presidential inaugural committee. In 2021, federal prosecutors charged him with acting as an unregistered agent for the UAE and Saudi Arabia — using his access to Trump and the inaugural committee to advance Gulf state interests. He was acquitted in 2022. He is named in Epstein's files. His UAE connections and George Nader's UAE backchannel operated in the same political-influence network.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. UAE/Saudi agent charges filed (2021). Acquitted 2022. Trump inaugural committee chair. Nader connection. Gulf state influence documented in Mueller probe.",
            link:"Trump's inaugural chair. UAE agent charges. In Epstein's files. The Gulf money and intelligence network runs through him, through Nader, and through Epstein's contact book."},

        {id:"bannon",label:"Steve Bannon",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"WHITE HOUSE / BREITBART / GOLDMAN SACHS",role:"Chief Strategist · Navy Intelligence · Goldman Sachs",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$20M",
            intelRole:"Former US Navy officer with Pentagon intelligence-adjacent background. Goldman Sachs investment banker. Breitbart News executive chairman. White House Chief Strategist (2017). Connected to the Epstein network through George Nader and the UAE backchannel documented in the Mueller probe.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Connected through the Trump-Nader-UAE backchannel documented in the Mueller investigation. Bannon was central to the nexus that included Tom Barrack (UAE agent charges) and George Nader (convicted pedophile, UAE backchannel). Bannon-aligned media had access to Epstein-related information that was selectively deployed for political warfare rather than victim accountability.",
            significance:"Bannon represents the political weaponization of the Epstein network — the use of connections and information as leverage rather than evidence. His Navy intelligence background, Goldman Sachs career, and White House role place him at the convergence of military intelligence, elite finance, and political power — the same intersection where Epstein operated.",
            desc:"Steve Bannon served in the US Navy with an intelligence-adjacent role at the Pentagon, worked as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs, produced media in Hollywood, built Breitbart News into a major political force, and served as Trump's White House Chief Strategist in 2017. He is named in Epstein files. His connection to the Epstein-adjacent network runs through George Nader — the twice-convicted pedophile who served as the UAE and Saudi Arabia's backchannel to the Trump administration — and Tom Barrack, charged as an unregistered UAE foreign agent.\n\nBannon-aligned media outlets had access to Epstein-related intelligence that was deployed selectively as a political weapon: connections to opponents were amplified, connections to allies were buried. After leaving the White House, Bannon was convicted of contempt of Congress and of fraud related to the 'We Build the Wall' campaign (later pardoned by Trump).",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Nader connection documented in Mueller probe. Barrack connection. Navy background. Goldman Sachs career. Selective media deployment of Epstein information. Contempt of Congress conviction. Fraud conviction (pardoned).",
            link:"Navy intelligence. Goldman Sachs. The White House. Connected to a convicted pedophile serving as Gulf backchannel. Named in the files. His media machine weaponized Epstein information for politics — not for justice."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // INTELLIGENCE
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"ben_menashe",label:"Ari Ben-Menashe",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"ISRAELI MILITARY INTELLIGENCE",role:"Former Intelligence Officer · Whistleblower",status:"WHISTLEBLOWER",
            intelRole:"Former Israeli military intelligence (Aman) officer who has publicly and repeatedly named Robert Maxwell as the person who recruited Epstein into Israeli intelligence operations. His testimony — given in multiple interviews and a formal submission — provides the clearest public account of the intelligence architecture behind the network. He has never been prosecuted for making these claims, and no Israeli official has sued him for defamation.",
            epsteinLink:"Directly named Robert Maxwell as Epstein's recruiter into Mossad blackmail operations. His account places the origin of the Epstein intelligence operation within the Maxwell family's confirmed intelligence network, and assigns it a specific function: the collection of compromising material on powerful Western figures.",
            significance:"Ben-Menashe is one of two former Israeli intelligence officers to publicly describe the Maxwell-Epstein-Mossad connection. The fact that neither Israel nor Maxwell's estate has sued him for defamation is itself significant. If his account were false, the legal exposure would be extraordinary. It has not been challenged in court.",
            desc:"Ari Ben-Menashe served as a senior officer in Israeli military intelligence (Aman) from the 1970s through the late 1980s, involved in operations across multiple continents. After leaving intelligence, he wrote 'Profits of War' (1992) — a memoir detailing Israeli intelligence operations including the use of Maxwell as an asset. In subsequent interviews and formal submissions, he has stated explicitly that Robert Maxwell recruited Jeffrey Epstein into Mossad operations, and that Epstein's function was to collect compromising material (kompromat) on powerful men in the United States and internationally.",
            evidence:"Published account 'Profits of War' (1992). Multiple on-record interviews naming Maxwell-Epstein recruitment chain. Aman (Israeli military intelligence) background confirmed. No defamation suit filed by any party. Victor Ostrovsky's independent account corroborates Maxwell-Mossad connection.",
            link:"He named the recruiter. He named the operation. He named the purpose. Nobody sued him. That is the most important thing about his account."},

        {id:"khashoggi",label:"Adnan Khashoggi",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"SAUDI INTELLIGENCE / ARMS DEALING",role:"Arms Dealer · Iran-Contra",status:"DECEASED (2017)",
            intelRole:"Saudi arms dealer and one of the wealthiest men in the world during the 1970s-80s. A key figure in the Iran-Contra affair and confirmed associate of Robert Maxwell. His social world — superyachts, penthouses, models, politicians, intelligence officials — was the template that Epstein's operation reproduced at a systemic level.",
            epsteinLink:"Close associate of Robert Maxwell. Operated in the same world of arms dealing, intelligence brokering, and elite social access that Maxwell used as cover. His niece Dodi Fayed (no — he was the uncle of Dodi Al-Fayed) connected him to the British royal family. The Saudi-intelligence-social world he inhabited is the same world the Maxwell-Epstein operation serviced.",
            significance:"Khashoggi is the missing link between the Iranian arms networks, Saudi intelligence, Maxwell's operations, and the world of elite social access that produced Epstein. He was the original model. Maxwell studied it. Epstein industrialized it.",
            desc:"Adnan Khashoggi was a Saudi arms dealer who served as a critical intermediary in some of the largest arms transactions of the Cold War, including deals central to the Iran-Contra affair. He was a confirmed associate of Robert Maxwell and operated in the same world of intelligence-adjacent dealing, political access, and manufactured social elite that Maxwell used. He was known for his superyachts, his apartments in global capitals, and his cultivation of politicians, royalty, and intelligence figures. He died in 2017. His nephew Jamal Khashoggi — the Washington Post journalist — was murdered on the orders of MBS in 2018.",
            evidence:"Iran-Contra involvement confirmed (Tower Commission). Maxwell association documented. Saudi intelligence connections confirmed. Social world overlap with Maxwell-Epstein network. Uncle of Jamal Khashoggi.",
            link:"The Saudi arms dealer who connected the intelligence worlds that made Maxwell powerful. Maxwell made Epstein. Khashoggi is the first domino before the first domino."},

        {id:"dougan",label:"John Dougan",type:"suspicious",radius:12,
            agency:"PALM BEACH COUNTY SHERIFF",role:"Former Deputy · Fled to Russia",status:"FLED TO RUSSIA",
            intelRole:"Former Palm Beach County Sheriff's deputy who claims to have copied the files from the original Epstein investigation — the same investigation that led to the 2008 NPA — and fled to Russia in 2016 to avoid what he describes as official retaliation. If his claim is true, he possesses evidence that has never been disclosed.",
            epsteinLink:"Served in the Palm Beach County Sheriff's department during the Epstein investigation. Claims to have copied investigation files. Left the US and sought asylum in Russia in 2016. His claimed possession of the files — and his location — place them beyond the reach of any US subpoena.",
            significance:"If Dougan's files exist and contain what he claims, they represent the most complete unredacted record of the original Epstein investigation outside official channels. His flight to Russia — where they are also presumably unreachable — places him in the same geopolitical space as the Maxwell-KGB intelligence thread.",
            desc:"John Dougan was a Palm Beach County Sheriff's deputy during the period of the original Epstein investigation. He claims to have copied investigation files and left the United States in 2016, eventually obtaining asylum in Russia. He has made various public statements about the files and their contents. His motivations, reliability, and the actual contents of any files he possesses have not been independently verified. He lives in Moscow.",
            evidence:"Former Palm Beach deputy confirmed. Claims to possess copied investigation files. Asylum in Russia documented. Public statements about file contents.",
            link:"A cop who says he has the files. Living in Russia. If he's telling the truth, the most important unredacted evidence in this case is in Moscow."},

        {id:"brennan",label:"John Brennan",type:"possibly",radius:24,
            agency:"CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY",role:"Former CIA Director",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"CIA Director from 2013 to 2017, serving under President Obama. Named in Epstein's contact files. During his tenure as CIA Director, Epstein was rebuilding his social network post-conviction and making extensive payments to Leon Black. The CIA, which has never publicly disclosed its assessment of Epstein's intelligence connections, was led by Brennan during a critical period.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. CIA Director during Epstein's post-conviction social and financial rehabilitation period (2013-2017). CIA has made no public statement on Epstein's intelligence connections despite Acosta's 'belonged to intelligence' claim.",
            significance:"The CIA director's name in the contact book of a man a US Attorney said 'belonged to intelligence.' The agency has never commented. The connection may be social. It may be more. The distinction has never been investigated.",
            desc:"John Brennan served as CIA Director from 2013 to 2017 after a 25-year career at the CIA, including as Chief of Station in Saudi Arabia and as Obama's counterterrorism adviser. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His tenure as CIA Director coincided with the period during which Epstein was paying Leon Black $158M, rebuilding his social network, and meeting repeatedly with Bill Gates. The CIA has made no public statement about Epstein's intelligence connections despite Alexander Acosta's on-record statement that Epstein 'belonged to intelligence.'",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. CIA Director confirmed 2013-2017. CIA institutional silence on Epstein's intelligence connections.",
            link:"The CIA director in the contact book of a man described as belonging to intelligence. The CIA has never commented. That silence is a statement."},

        {id:"petraeus",label:"David Petraeus",type:"possibly",radius:22,
            agency:"CIA / US ARMY",role:"Former CIA Director · Four-Star General",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Former CIA Director (2011-2012) and four-star Army general who commanded forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. Named in Epstein's contact files. Resigned from CIA after pleading guilty to sharing classified information with his biographer-mistress Paula Broadwell.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. CIA Director and senior military commander whose appearance in the network follows the established pattern of intelligence community figures in Epstein's orbit.",
            significance:"A four-star general and CIA director who resigned under a classified information scandal, in Epstein's contact book. What distinguished Epstein's collection of intelligence figures — and what he offered them — has never been investigated.",
            desc:"David Petraeus served as CIA Director from 2011 to 2012, after commanding US forces in Iraq and Afghanistan as a four-star general. He resigned from the CIA following the revelation that he had shared classified notebooks with biographer Paula Broadwell, with whom he was having an affair. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and received probation. He is named in Epstein's contact files.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. CIA Director confirmed 2011-2012. Four-star general. Resigned over classified information mishandling. Guilty plea confirmed.",
            link:"A CIA director who resigned over a secret affair involving classified information, in the contact book of a man who collected secrets about powerful men. The irony is its own evidence."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // FINANCE
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"gates",label:"Bill Gates",type:"suspicious",radius:36,
            agency:"MICROSOFT / GATES FOUNDATION",role:"Tech Billionaire · Post-Conviction Meetings",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$128B",
            intelRole:"Multiple documented meetings with Epstein between 2011 and 2013, all after Epstein's conviction. Gates Foundation chief scientific adviser Boris Nikolic was named as backup executor of Epstein's will — without his knowledge, according to Nikolic. Melinda Gates warned her husband about the relationship. The Epstein connection was cited in the Gates divorce proceedings.",
            epsteinLink:"Multiple post-conviction meetings at Epstein's Manhattan townhouse documented by Gates's own staff. Flight on Epstein's plane. $2M donation to MIT routed through Epstein as intermediary. Nikolic named in will. Melinda Gates explicit warnings ignored. Divorce filing cited the relationship.",
            significance:"The world's wealthiest philanthropist repeatedly met with a convicted sex offender post-conviction, flew on his plane, routed donations through him, and considered giving him control of a charitable fund — despite his wife's explicit warnings. What Epstein offered that justified this relationship has never been publicly disclosed.",
            desc:"Bill Gates maintained extensive contact with Jeffrey Epstein from 2011 to at least 2013 — years after Epstein's 2008 conviction as a registered sex offender. The relationship extended to discussions about Epstein managing a Gates-funded charitable initiative. Gates Foundation chief scientific adviser Boris Nikolic was named as backup executor of Epstein's will without being informed — suggesting Epstein considered him close enough to Gates's orbit to serve that function. Gates's wife Melinda explicitly warned him about the relationship on multiple occasions. When the relationship became public, the Epstein connection was cited in the Gates divorce proceedings as a source of conflict. Gates flew on Epstein's plane in 2013.",
            evidence:"Multiple townhouse meetings 2011-2013 (confirmed by Gates staff emails). Nikolic named as will executor. Melinda Gates warnings documented. Divorce proceedings citing Epstein relationship. $2M MIT donation routed via Epstein. Flight on Epstein plane (2013).",
            link:"The world's most prominent philanthropist met with a convicted sex offender repeatedly, flew on his plane, and routed charitable money through him. His wife told him to stop. He didn't. What Epstein had or offered that made him worth that risk has never been disclosed."},

        {id:"musk",label:"Elon Musk",type:"suspicious",radius:38,
            agency:"TESLA / SPACEX / X",role:"Tech Billionaire · World's Wealthiest Person",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$200B+",
            intelRole:"World's wealthiest person and owner of X (Twitter), SpaceX, and Tesla. The 2026 DOJ file release included emails showing Musk's assistant requesting an invitation to visit Epstein's private island. A Christmas Day email exchange was documented. A 2014 photograph exists. Ghislaine Maxwell was photographed at a Musk-hosted event.",
            epsteinLink:"DOJ 2026 files: assistant email requesting island invitation. Christmas Day 2014 email exchange. 2014 photograph. Maxwell photographed at Musk event. Connection extends into the post-conviction period.",
            significance:"The world's wealthiest person, who now owns a major global communications platform and has significant political influence, has documented connections to Epstein's island and Maxwell's social circle. The island invitation request — made by his assistant, presumably with his knowledge — has not been publicly explained.",
            desc:"Elon Musk is the founder of SpaceX, CEO of Tesla, and owner of X (formerly Twitter). He is the world's wealthiest person. The 2026 DOJ document release revealed emails in which Musk's assistant requested an invitation for Musk to visit Epstein's private island in the US Virgin Islands. A Christmas Day 2014 email exchange between Musk and Epstein was documented. A 2014 photograph shows Musk in a context connected to the network. Ghislaine Maxwell was photographed at an event Musk hosted. Musk has denied having a meaningful relationship with Epstein.",
            evidence:"2026 DOJ files: island invitation request email (Musk's assistant). Christmas Day 2014 email exchange. 2014 photograph in network context. Maxwell photographed at Musk event.",
            link:"His assistant requested an island invitation. A Christmas email exists. Maxwell was at his event. The world's most powerful private citizen has Epstein connections he has not publicly explained."},

        {id:"kravis",label:"Henry Kravis",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"KKR & CO",role:"Private Equity Billionaire",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$10B",
            intelRole:"Co-founder of KKR & Co., one of the world's largest private equity firms and a pioneer of the leveraged buyout. Signed Epstein's birthday book — a document that places him at a social celebration of the man who was, at the time of signing, a registered sex offender.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. KKR's private equity world overlaps with the Apollo Global Management network (Leon Black, $158M in Epstein fees). Private equity as an institutional sector had more documented Epstein exposure than any other financial category.",
            significance:"The co-founder of private equity signed a birthday card for a convicted sex trafficker. The private equity sector — Black, Kravis, and their networks — has more documented Epstein financial exposure than any other industry. That pattern has never been formally examined.",
            desc:"Henry Kravis co-founded KKR & Co. in 1976, inventing the modern leveraged buyout and creating one of the most powerful private equity firms in history. He is named in Epstein's files and signed Epstein's birthday book — a social gesture that carries meaning given Epstein's public conviction at the time. His professional world overlaps directly with Leon Black's Apollo Global Management, which paid Epstein $158M, and the broader private equity ecosystem that had multiple documented connections to Epstein.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Signed birthday book. KKR-Apollo private equity network overlap. Black ($158M) connection.",
            link:"He signed the birthday book of a convicted sex offender. The private equity world he helped build paid Epstein $158M through Leon Black. The sector's relationship with Epstein has never been audited."},

        {id:"david_koch",label:"David Koch",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"KOCH INDUSTRIES",role:"Billionaire Industrialist · Political Donor",status:"DECEASED (2019)",networth:"$42B (at death)",
            intelRole:"Co-owner of Koch Industries and the driving force behind one of the most sophisticated political donor networks in American history. Named in Epstein's files and signed his birthday book. His death in August 2019 — the same month as Epstein's death — foreclosed any possibility of his testimony.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Signed birthday book. Operated in the same New York and Palm Beach social circuits as Epstein. Death in August 2019 occurred weeks after Epstein's death.",
            significance:"One of the most powerful political donors in America, in Epstein's social circle. His death eliminated any possibility of testimony about the relationship.",
            desc:"David Koch co-owned Koch Industries with his brother Charles, and together they built one of the most influential political donor networks in American history, funding libertarian and Republican causes. He was one of the wealthiest Americans of the modern era. He signed Epstein's birthday book and is named in Epstein's files. He operated in the same elite New York and Palm Beach social circles as Epstein. He died on August 23, 2019 — thirteen days after Epstein's death.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Signed birthday book. New York/Palm Beach social circuit. Death August 2019.",
            link:"He signed the birthday book. He died two weeks after Epstein. Another name who will never testify."},

        {id:"murdoch",label:"Rupert Murdoch",type:"possibly",radius:34,
            agency:"NEWS CORP / FOX",role:"Media Mogul",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$17B",
            intelRole:"Founder of News Corp and Fox News, the most influential media empire in the English-speaking world. Listed in Epstein's black book. His outlets have been accused of killing or suppressing stories about Epstein's network. Robert Maxwell was his direct business rival — a competing media baron who was simultaneously a Mossad, KGB, and MI6 asset. The rivalry between Murdoch and Maxwell, and what each knew about the other, has never been examined.",
            epsteinLink:"Listed in Epstein's black book. Media suppression allegations regarding Epstein stories. Robert Maxwell was his direct commercial rival across the 1980s-90s — two media barons who operated in the same world, one of whom was a confirmed triple intelligence agent.",
            significance:"The man who controls the largest English-language media empire in the world is in Epstein's black book. His outlets have allegedly killed Epstein-related stories. His greatest business rival was a Mossad-KGB-MI6 triple agent. What Murdoch knew about Maxwell, and what Maxwell knew about Murdoch, is one of the unexplored intelligence questions of the 20th century.",
            desc:"Rupert Murdoch built News Corp into a global media empire spanning Fox News, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Post, The Times of London, and dozens of other properties. He is listed in Epstein's black book. His media outlets have been accused by journalists of killing or deprioritizing stories about Epstein and his network. Robert Maxwell was his direct commercial rival during the 1980s and 1990s — they competed for the same newspapers and publishing properties — and Maxwell was simultaneously confirmed as an asset of Mossad, KGB, and MI6.",
            evidence:"Listed in Epstein black book. Media suppression allegations (multiple journalist accounts). Maxwell commercial rivalry documented across 1980s-90s acquisitions. Fox News/News Corp position in English-language media.",
            link:"In the black book. His outlets killed stories. His greatest rival was a triple intelligence agent. What Murdoch knows about Maxwell, and what he decided not to publish, is one of the most important unasked questions in this case."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // TECH / ACADEMIA
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"joi_ito",label:"Joi Ito",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"MIT MEDIA LAB",role:"Director · Concealed Donations",status:"RESIGNED",
            intelRole:"Director of MIT Media Lab who concealed $7.5M in donations from Epstein — labeling him as 'anonymous' in internal records to hide the source from MIT's official gift-refusal policy that barred donations from Epstein. Exposed by Ronan Farrow in the New Yorker. Resigned September 2019.",
            epsteinLink:"Actively concealed $7.5M in Epstein donations from MIT administration. Labeled Epstein 'anonymous' to circumvent the institution's own policy. Traveled with Epstein post-conviction. Met with Epstein multiple times. Facilitated introduction of Epstein to other MIT and Harvard figures.",
            significance:"Ito's concealment of the donations wasn't a passive failure — it was an active cover-up. He knew the gift policy. He knew who Epstein was. He relabeled the donations and kept the money. The MIT system that enabled this concealment protected Epstein's academic respectability for years.",
            desc:"Joi Ito served as director of MIT's Media Lab from 2011 to 2019. During this period, Epstein donated approximately $7.5M to the Media Lab — but Ito directed staff to label the donations as coming from an 'anonymous' source to hide Epstein's involvement from MIT administrators, who had a policy barring gifts from convicted sex offenders. Ito met with Epstein multiple times post-conviction, traveled with him, and facilitated introductions between Epstein and other academic figures. Ronan Farrow's New Yorker investigation exposed the scheme in detail. Ito resigned in September 2019. The internal MIT emails revealing the concealment were released publicly.",
            evidence:"$7.5M in concealed Epstein donations (Farrow New Yorker exposé). Internal MIT emails showing 'anonymous' labeling instruction. Multiple post-conviction meetings and travel. Academic introduction network. Resigned September 2019. MIT internal investigation confirmed.",
            link:"$7.5M in laundered academic legitimacy. He relabeled the money. He knew the policy. He covered it up. Then he resigned. The academic institution that let him do it for years has never been held accountable."},

        {id:"summers",label:"Larry Summers",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"US TREASURY / HARVARD",role:"Treasury Secretary · Harvard President",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"US Secretary of the Treasury under Clinton (1999-2001) and President of Harvard University (2001-2006). Harvard accepted over $9.1M from Epstein across various channels. Summers met with Epstein multiple times after the conviction. His presence legitimized Epstein's academic network in ways that direct donations alone could not.",
            epsteinLink:"Harvard accepted $9.1M+ in Epstein donations during and after Summers's tenure. Multiple documented post-conviction meetings between Summers and Epstein. Harvard's institutional acceptance of Epstein money enabled the academic legitimacy pipeline.",
            significance:"The former Treasury Secretary and Harvard president meeting repeatedly with a convicted sex offender, while his institution took $9.1M from that sex offender, represents the academic-financial-political legitimacy machine at its most visible. Summers's presence at these meetings gave Epstein exactly what he was paying for.",
            desc:"Lawrence Summers served as US Secretary of the Treasury under Clinton from 1999 to 2001 and as President of Harvard University from 2001 to 2006. Harvard University received over $9.1M in donations from Epstein — funneled through various structures — during a period spanning before and after Epstein's conviction. Summers met with Epstein multiple times after the 2008 conviction. The Harvard-Epstein connection extended beyond Summers to include Martin Nowak ($6.5M), George Church, Steven Pinker, and Noam Chomsky, creating an institutional pipeline of legitimacy that served Epstein's rehabilitation narrative.",
            evidence:"$9.1M Harvard donations documented. Multiple post-conviction meetings. Harvard institutional pipeline (Nowak $6.5M, Church, Pinker documented). Treasury Secretary confirmed. Flight logs.",
            link:"Harvard took $9.1M. Its president met with Epstein after conviction. The institution that $9.1M bought — scientific credibility, faculty access, Harvard's name — was exactly what Epstein needed. Money laundered into legitimacy."},

        {id:"hoffman",label:"Reid Hoffman",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"LINKEDIN / GREYLOCK",role:"Tech Billionaire · Introduced Ito to Epstein",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$2.5B",
            intelRole:"LinkedIn co-founder and Greylock Partners investor who introduced Joi Ito to Epstein — an introduction that directly enabled $7.5M in concealed donations to MIT and Epstein's penetration of the academic technology world. Attended post-conviction fundraisers at Epstein's home. Has acknowledged the introduction but minimized its significance.",
            epsteinLink:"Introduced Joi Ito to Epstein — the introduction that began the MIT Media Lab funding relationship. Attended post-conviction fundraiser at Epstein's Manhattan townhouse. Multiple documented post-conviction meetings.",
            significance:"Hoffman is the human link between Silicon Valley, the academic world, and Epstein's rehabilitation network. His introduction of Ito to Epstein set in motion a chain that funneled millions into MIT and gave Epstein academic cover. He has acknowledged this but has never been compelled to fully account for it.",
            desc:"Reid Hoffman co-founded LinkedIn and is a partner at Greylock Partners, making him one of the most connected figures in Silicon Valley. He introduced Joi Ito — then Director of MIT's Media Lab — to Jeffrey Epstein, an introduction that directly led to Epstein's $7.5M in concealed MIT donations and his penetration of the academic technology network. Hoffman attended at least one fundraiser held at Epstein's Manhattan townhouse after Epstein's conviction. He has publicly acknowledged the introduction and expressed regret.",
            evidence:"Ito introduction documented (Farrow reporting, Hoffman's own acknowledgment). Post-conviction fundraiser attendance at Epstein residence. Multiple post-conviction meetings. MIT Media Lab funding chain documented.",
            link:"He introduced the MIT director to the convicted sex trafficker. That introduction laundered $7.5M into academic legitimacy. He has expressed regret. He has not been questioned under oath."},

        {id:"thiel",label:"Peter Thiel",type:"suspicious",radius:24,
            agency:"PALANTIR / FOUNDERS FUND",role:"Tech Billionaire · CIA-Linked",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$9.4B",
            intelRole:"PayPal co-founder and Palantir co-founder — Palantir was seeded with CIA venture capital through In-Q-Tel and has government surveillance contracts worth billions. Named in Epstein's files. His investment network overlaps with Ehud Barak's Carbyne911 surveillance startup, which Epstein also invested in.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Palantir-CIA surveillance tech connection overlaps with Carbyne911-Barak-Epstein surveillance investment cluster. Investment network connections.",
            significance:"A CIA-seeded surveillance technology billionaire in the Epstein contact network, with investment overlap with the Barak-Epstein surveillance startup cluster. The convergence of intelligence-adjacent technology, private capital, and the Epstein network in a single person is consistent with every other pattern in this case.",
            desc:"Peter Thiel co-founded PayPal, provided the first external investment in Facebook, and co-founded Palantir Technologies — a data analytics and surveillance company that received seed funding from In-Q-Tel, the CIA's venture capital arm, and has extensive contracts with US intelligence and law enforcement agencies. He is named in Epstein's files. His investment networks overlap with Ehud Barak's Carbyne911 surveillance startup, which was co-invested by Epstein. He was an early supporter of Donald Trump.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Palantir CIA/In-Q-Tel seed funding documented. Barak Carbyne911 investment overlap. Government surveillance contracts. Founders Fund network connections.",
            link:"CIA-funded surveillance tech. In the files. Investment overlap with the Barak-Epstein surveillance cluster. The intelligence-tech-finance convergence that defines the network appears in miniature in one man."},

        {id:"brin",label:"Sergey Brin",type:"suspicious",radius:28,
            agency:"GOOGLE / ALPHABET",role:"Google Co-Founder",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$110B",
            intelRole:"Google co-founder and one of the wealthiest people in the world. Named in Epstein's files. Ghislaine Maxwell's social circle overlapped extensively with Silicon Valley elite, and Maxwell was photographed at Google events. Brin's position at the center of the global information architecture makes his presence in Epstein's files particularly significant.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Maxwell social circle overlap — Maxwell was photographed at Google-connected events. Silicon Valley elite network connections.",
            significance:"The co-founder of the company that controls more information about more people than any other organization in history is in Epstein's files. What Epstein's network knew about Brin, or offered him, has never been examined.",
            desc:"Sergey Brin co-founded Google with Larry Page in 1998, building it into Alphabet Inc. and one of the most powerful corporations in human history. He is named in Epstein's files and his social world overlapped with Ghislaine Maxwell's Silicon Valley-adjacent network. Maxwell was photographed at events connected to Google's social sphere.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Maxwell social circle overlap. Silicon Valley network connections.",
            link:"The man who controls Google is in Epstein's files. Maxwell moved through his social world. What Epstein's network knew about the man who knows everything about everyone has never been asked."},

        {id:"zuckerberg",label:"Mark Zuckerberg",type:"suspicious",radius:32,
            agency:"META",role:"Meta CEO · Facebook / Instagram / WhatsApp",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$170B",
            intelRole:"Founder and CEO of Meta, controlling the world's largest social media ecosystem across Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp. Named in Epstein's contact files. His presence in the files follows the pattern of tech billionaires — Gates, Brin, Musk, Hoffman — who appear across the Epstein network.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Silicon Valley elite network. Reid Hoffman connection (Hoffman introduced Ito to Epstein and has Zuckerberg connections through Facebook investment history).",
            significance:"The man who controls the largest social communications infrastructure in history is in Epstein's contact files. The pattern of tech CEOs in the network — each controlling enormous quantities of personal data — has never been investigated as a cluster.",
            desc:"Mark Zuckerberg founded Facebook in 2004 and has built it into Meta, controlling Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp — the social communications infrastructure for approximately three billion people. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His presence follows the pattern of Silicon Valley tech leaders whose names appear across Epstein's network, connected through Reid Hoffman, the investment world, and the social world that Maxwell cultivated.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Silicon Valley network. Hoffman connection through Facebook investment history.",
            link:"Three billion people's communications platform. In the contact files. The concentration of data power and the Epstein network intersect at every major tech platform."},

        {id:"ellison",label:"Larry Ellison",type:"possibly",radius:30,
            agency:"ORACLE",role:"Oracle Founder",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$158B",
            intelRole:"Oracle founder and one of the world's wealthiest individuals. Epstein visited his private Hawaiian island of Lanai — a visit that represents access to one of the most exclusive private spaces in the world, extended by the billionaire who owns it.",
            epsteinLink:"Epstein visited Ellison's private island of Lanai (documented). Named in Epstein files. Tech billionaire social circuit.",
            significance:"Epstein's access to Lanai — a private island owned by one of the world's wealthiest men — illustrates the social currency he maintained even post-conviction. Ellison granted him access to his most private space.",
            desc:"Larry Ellison co-founded Oracle Corporation and is one of the most consistently wealthy people on earth. He purchased the Hawaiian island of Lanai in 2012 for approximately $300M, making it one of the most exclusive private properties in the world. Epstein is documented to have visited Lanai. Ellison is named in Epstein's files. His presence in the network follows the pattern of tech billionaires who maintained contact with Epstein post-conviction.",
            evidence:"Lanai visit documented. Named in Epstein files. Tech billionaire network connections.",
            link:"A private island visit by a convicted sex offender, invited by one of the world's richest men. Access to private space was Epstein's currency. Ellison gave it."},

        {id:"nicholas_neg",label:"Nicholas Negroponte",type:"suspicious",radius:15,
            agency:"MIT MEDIA LAB",role:"Founder · MIT-Epstein Ties",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Founder of MIT Media Lab and architect of the institution that received $7.5M in concealed Epstein donations. His brother John Negroponte served as Director of National Intelligence. Nicholas's presence in the MIT-Epstein funding pipeline, combined with his brother's intelligence community role, places him at the intersection of academic technology and US intelligence.",
            epsteinLink:"Founded MIT Media Lab — the institution that accepted $7.5M in Epstein money concealed under Joi Ito's direction. Named in Epstein files. MIT-Epstein academic pipeline.",
            significance:"The founder of the institution that laundered $7.5M of Epstein's money into academic credibility, whose brother ran American intelligence. The Media Lab connection and the intelligence family connection are not necessarily related — but both are documented.",
            desc:"Nicholas Negroponte founded the MIT Media Lab in 1985 and served as its first director, making it one of the most influential technology research institutions in the world. He is named in Epstein's files and is part of the MIT-Epstein funding pipeline. His brother John Negroponte served as the first US Director of National Intelligence (2005-2007).",
            evidence:"MIT Media Lab founder. Named in Epstein files. $7.5M MIT pipeline (Ito). Brother John Negroponte: first Director of National Intelligence.",
            link:"He founded the lab that took Epstein's money. His brother ran American intelligence. Both facts are true. Their relationship to each other is unknown."},

        {id:"minsky",label:"Marvin Minsky",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"MIT",role:"AI Pioneer · Father of Artificial Intelligence",status:"DECEASED (2016)",
            intelRole:"Co-founder of MIT's Artificial Intelligence Lab and one of the foundational figures of computer science. Virginia Giuffre stated under oath that she was directed by Epstein and Maxwell to have sex with Minsky on Epstein's private island. Minsky died in January 2016. He was never questioned.",
            epsteinLink:"Named under oath by Virginia Giuffre as having abused her on Epstein's island. Attended Epstein's scientific events. Part of the MIT academic cluster that received Epstein funding and provided intellectual legitimacy.",
            significance:"The father of artificial intelligence, named under oath by a trafficking victim, on the island. He died before any investigation reached him. His reputation was rehabilitated faster than the questions about him were answered.",
            desc:"Marvin Minsky co-founded MIT's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and is considered one of the founding fathers of the field. He was a central figure in the MIT academic circle that Epstein cultivated — attending his dinners, accepting his funding infrastructure, and appearing on the island. Virginia Giuffre stated under oath in federal deposition that she was directed by Epstein and Maxwell to have sex with Minsky on Epstein's island. Minsky died on January 24, 2016, at age 88, before any investigation could question him.",
            evidence:"Named under oath in Giuffre federal deposition. Epstein island visit documented. MIT academic network member. Died January 2016 before any questioning.",
            link:"Named under oath. On the island. Dead before the questions arrived. The father of artificial intelligence, in the files, placed there by a victim's sworn testimony."},

        {id:"pinker",label:"Steven Pinker",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"HARVARD",role:"Psychologist · Author",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Harvard psychology professor and bestselling author introduced to Epstein by Alan Dershowitz. Flew on Epstein's private plane. Spoke at events associated with Epstein's academic circle. His introduction through Dershowitz — Epstein's attorney and accused participant — connects his presence in the network to its legal-operational core.",
            epsteinLink:"Introduced to Epstein by Alan Dershowitz (Epstein's defense attorney and accused participant). Flew on the Lolita Express. Participated in Epstein's academic social circle.",
            significance:"Introduced by the man who both defended Epstein and was named by a victim as a participant. Flew on the plane whose name has become synonymous with the operation. The chain of introduction matters.",
            desc:"Steven Pinker is a Harvard professor of psychology and one of the most prominent public intellectuals in the world, known for books including 'The Better Angels of Our Nature' and 'Enlightenment Now.' He was introduced to Epstein by Alan Dershowitz — Epstein's defense attorney, the architect of the NPA, and a man named under oath by Virginia Giuffre as a participant in abuse. Pinker flew on Epstein's private plane and participated in his academic social circle.",
            evidence:"Flight logs confirming Lolita Express travel. Introduction by Dershowitz documented. Academic event participation. Named in files.",
            link:"Dershowitz introduced him to Epstein. He flew on the plane. Dershowitz was named under oath as a participant. The introduction was not casual."},

        {id:"chomsky",label:"Noam Chomsky",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"MIT",role:"Linguist · Public Intellectual",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"MIT linguistics professor and the world's most cited living intellectual. Met with Epstein multiple times after his 2008 conviction. His post-conviction meetings with Epstein — continued on the same MIT campus where Epstein's money was being concealed by Joi Ito — represent a documented willingness to engage with a convicted sex offender.",
            epsteinLink:"Multiple documented meetings with Epstein after his 2008 conviction. MIT campus connection where Epstein's $7.5M was being laundered through the Media Lab simultaneously.",
            significance:"The world's foremost critic of institutional power and hypocrisy met repeatedly with a convicted sex offender on the campus where that sex offender's money was being concealed. The irony has been noted. The explanation has not been provided.",
            desc:"Noam Chomsky is Institute Professor Emeritus at MIT and widely described as the world's most influential public intellectual — renowned for his critiques of US foreign policy, corporate power, and institutional hypocrisy. He met with Jeffrey Epstein on multiple occasions after Epstein's 2008 conviction as a registered sex offender. These meetings occurred at or connected to MIT, where simultaneously Joi Ito was concealing $7.5M of Epstein's donations.",
            evidence:"Multiple post-conviction meetings documented. MIT institutional connection. Named in files.",
            link:"The man who built his career criticizing the powerful protecting themselves met repeatedly with a convicted predator. On the campus where that predator's money was being hidden. No explanation has been offered."},

        {id:"krauss",label:"Lawrence Krauss",type:"suspicious",radius:15,
            agency:"ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY",role:"Physicist · Director, Origins Project",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Theoretical physicist and director of the Origins Project at Arizona State University. Traveled extensively with Epstein post-conviction. Publicly defended Epstein in the media, describing criticism of his relationship with Epstein as 'witch-hunt' behavior. Was himself the subject of multiple sexual misconduct allegations from women in the physics community.",
            epsteinLink:"Traveled with Epstein post-conviction (documented). Publicly defended Epstein against criticism. Named in files. His public defense extended Epstein's academic respectability at a crucial time.",
            significance:"A scientist who used his platform to publicly legitimize Epstein — while himself facing misconduct allegations — and who continued traveling with him post-conviction. The pattern of men with their own misconduct exposure defending Epstein is consistent throughout the network.",
            desc:"Lawrence Krauss is a theoretical physicist and director of the Origins Project at Arizona State University. He traveled with Epstein on multiple occasions after Epstein's 2008 conviction. When journalists began questioning the Epstein-academic relationship, Krauss publicly defended Epstein, writing in Slate that it was a 'witch-hunt.' Multiple women in physics and astronomy subsequently made sexual misconduct allegations against Krauss himself. He was placed on leave by Arizona State.",
            evidence:"Post-conviction travel with Epstein documented. Public defense published in Slate. Multiple separate misconduct allegations. Arizona State leave. Named in files.",
            link:"He traveled with the predator. He defended the predator in print. He had his own misconduct allegations. The men who most vigorously defended Epstein consistently had the most to lose if the culture of protection ended."},

        {id:"deepak",label:"Deepak Chopra",type:"suspicious",radius:15,
            agency:"PERSONAL",role:"Author · Wellness Entrepreneur",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Author and wellness entrepreneur who has built a global brand around spiritual guidance and human potential. Named in Epstein's contact files. His presence in the network follows the pattern of cultural legitimacy figures — celebrities, authors, intellectuals — whose social presence provided cover for Epstein's operation.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Cultural elite social circuit overlap with Maxwell and Epstein's New York and international network.",
            significance:"Chopra's global brand is built on spiritual authenticity and human elevation. His presence in the contact book of the world's most documented predator is an irony the network produced repeatedly — the architecture of respectability serving those who most needed it.",
            desc:"Deepak Chopra is one of the world's best-known authors and wellness entrepreneurs, with a global brand spanning books, speaking, and spiritual guidance reaching tens of millions. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His social world overlapped with the cultural and intellectual elite that Epstein and Maxwell cultivated as social cover.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Cultural elite social network overlap.",
            link:"The guru of human potential in the contact book of a predator. The network needed respectability. It collected it systematically from every category of public life."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // MEDIA / CELEBRITY
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"copperfield",label:"David Copperfield",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Illusionist",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"World's most famous illusionist, named by multiple Epstein victims as present at events. Flight logs document his presence on the network. His appearance in victim testimony — named directly, not just in contact files — places him in a more significant category than social acquaintance.",
            epsteinLink:"Named directly by Virginia Giuffre and other victims as present at Epstein events. Flight logs documenting presence on Epstein's network. Social circle connection.",
            significance:"Named by victims, not just in contact files. The distinction matters: contact files document who Epstein knew. Victim testimony documents who was present at events where trafficking occurred.",
            desc:"David Copperfield is the world's most commercially successful illusionist. He is named in Epstein's files and documented in flight logs. Virginia Giuffre and other victims named Copperfield as present at events they attended. His presence in victim testimony — as opposed to merely in contact files — places him in a more direct relationship with the operation than figures who appear only in the black book.",
            evidence:"Named directly by Giuffre and other victims in testimony. Flight logs. Named in contact files.",
            link:"Named by victims. Not just in the contact book — in the testimony of women describing what happened to them. That is a different category of connection."},

        {id:"woody",label:"Woody Allen",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Director",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Film director who had dinner with Epstein after his conviction and was photographed with Ghislaine Maxwell. His own adoption and sexual abuse allegations — involving his adopted daughter Dylan Farrow — predate the Epstein connection and establish an independent pattern that places his Epstein social relationship in context.",
            epsteinLink:"Post-conviction dinner with Epstein documented. Photographed with Maxwell. Social circle connection in New York elite.",
            significance:"A director with longstanding personal abuse allegations dining with a convicted sex trafficker and photographed with his operational partner. The social acceptance of Epstein in elite New York circles — of which Allen was a fixture — enabled the continued operation post-conviction.",
            desc:"Woody Allen is one of American cinema's most decorated directors. He had dinner with Epstein after Epstein's 2008 conviction and was photographed with Ghislaine Maxwell. His adopted daughter Dylan Farrow has publicly alleged that Allen sexually abused her as a child. The investigation into those allegations was ultimately not prosecuted. Allen's social presence in the same New York elite circles as Epstein — alongside similar allegations in his own history — places him in the context of a broader culture of elite protection.",
            evidence:"Post-conviction dinner documented. Maxwell photographs. Named in files. Dylan Farrow public allegations.",
            link:"Post-conviction dinner. Maxwell photographs. His own abuse allegations. The social world that protected Allen for thirty years is the same world that protected Epstein."},

        {id:"spacey",label:"Kevin Spacey",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Actor",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Academy Award-winning actor documented in flight logs aboard Epstein's Lolita Express alongside Bill Clinton. Subsequently faced multiple sexual assault allegations from men, including actor Anthony Rapp, resulting in his removal from 'House of Cards' and industry blacklisting. His independent misconduct profile and his presence on Epstein's plane with the former president creates a significant evidentiary intersection.",
            epsteinLink:"Flight logs confirm travel on the Lolita Express with Bill Clinton. Named in Epstein files. Operated in the same entertainment and political elite social circuit.",
            significance:"An actor on Epstein's plane with a former president, who subsequently faced independent sexual assault allegations. The flight log places him physically in the network. His own misconduct profile follows the pattern of protected predators who operated across the same institutional ecosystem.",
            desc:"Kevin Spacey is a two-time Academy Award winner who was among the most acclaimed actors in Hollywood. Flight logs confirm he traveled on Epstein's Boeing 727 alongside Bill Clinton. He is named in Epstein's files. In 2017, multiple men — beginning with actor Anthony Rapp — alleged that Spacey had sexually assaulted them. He was removed from the final season of 'House of Cards' and effectively blacklisted from Hollywood. He was acquitted of criminal charges in the UK in 2023.",
            evidence:"Flight logs confirming Lolita Express travel with Clinton. Named in Epstein files. Multiple independent sexual assault allegations (Anthony Rapp and others). UK criminal trial (acquitted 2023). Removed from House of Cards.",
            link:"On the plane with Clinton. Named in the files. Independent assault allegations. Acquitted in court. The flight log does not move."},

        {id:"tucker",label:"Chris Tucker",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Actor",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Actor best known for the Rush Hour franchise, documented in flight logs aboard Epstein's Lolita Express alongside Bill Clinton. His presence on the plane is documented evidence of participation in the same travel network as the former president and Epstein's associates.",
            epsteinLink:"Flight logs confirm travel on the Lolita Express alongside Bill Clinton. Named in Epstein files.",
            significance:"On the plane. On the record.",
            desc:"Chris Tucker is an actor and comedian best known for the Rush Hour franchise. Flight logs confirm he traveled on Epstein's Boeing 727 alongside Bill Clinton. He is named in Epstein's files. No further allegations have been made against him beyond his documented presence in the flight logs.",
            evidence:"Flight logs confirming Lolita Express travel with Clinton. Named in Epstein files.",
            link:"On Epstein's plane with the former president. The flight log is a public record. That's the evidence. Nothing more, nothing less."},

        {id:"naomi",label:"Naomi Campbell",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"MODELING",role:"Supermodel · Maxwell Circle",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"One of the world's most famous supermodels and a central figure in Ghislaine Maxwell's social circle. Connected to Jean-Luc Brunel through Flavio Briatore's social world. Her position at the intersection of the modeling industry — the primary recruitment pipeline for Epstein's operation — and Maxwell's personal social network makes her one of the most well-positioned witnesses to the social architecture of the network.",
            epsteinLink:"Documented member of Maxwell's close social circle. Brunel-Briatore connection through the modeling industry. Named in Epstein files. Present at events across the Maxwell-Epstein social world.",
            significance:"The modeling industry was Epstein's primary recruitment pipeline. Maxwell's social circle was his access infrastructure. Campbell was present at the intersection of both — a witness to the world that enabled the operation.",
            desc:"Naomi Campbell is one of the original supermodels, a career spanning four decades. She was a documented member of Ghislaine Maxwell's close social circle, with photographic evidence across multiple events and years. She was connected to Jean-Luc Brunel — Epstein's modeling industry recruiter — through the social world of Flavio Briatore and European fashion. She is named in Epstein's files.",
            evidence:"Maxwell social circle membership documented photographically. Brunel-Briatore modeling connection. Named in Epstein files.",
            link:"Maxwell's social circle provided Epstein's access to the elite. The modeling industry provided his victims. Campbell was at the center of both. What she witnessed has never been compelled."},

        {id:"branson",label:"Richard Branson",type:"suspicious",radius:24,
            agency:"VIRGIN GROUP",role:"Billionaire Entrepreneur",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$3B",
            intelRole:"Founder of the Virgin Group and one of the world's most recognizable entrepreneurs. A 2013 email from Epstein to his inner circle invited them to 'bring your harem' — language that describes women as property. Branson was among the recipients. He also reportedly advised Bill Gates on 'reputation rehabilitation' strategies — a service that only makes sense if there was a reputation problem to address.",
            epsteinLink:"Recipient of Epstein's 2013 'bring your harem' email. Advised Gates on reputation rehabilitation regarding the Epstein relationship. Named in files.",
            significance:"'Bring your harem' — Epstein's own words describing women as property, sent to men he trusted with that language. The recipient list of that email is itself evidence. Branson's advice to Gates on 'reputation rehabilitation' suggests knowledge of what needed rehabilitating.",
            desc:"Richard Branson founded the Virgin Group and has built a global brand around adventure, disruption, and accessible luxury. He is named in Epstein's files and was a recipient of the 2013 email in which Epstein invited associates to 'bring your harem' — language that treats women as property and suggests a shared understanding of what visits to Epstein's properties involved. Branson reportedly advised Bill Gates on strategies for managing his reputation following the revelation of his Epstein connections.",
            evidence:"2013 'bring your harem' email (recipient). Reputation rehabilitation advice to Gates documented. Named in Epstein files.",
            link:"'Bring your harem' — Epstein's email to the men he trusted with that language. Then he advised the world's richest man on how to repair his reputation for knowing Epstein. What Branson knew, and when, is in those two facts."},

        {id:"tisch",label:"Steven Tisch",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"NFL / ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Giants Co-Owner · Film Producer",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Co-owner of the New York Giants and film producer with 400+ mentions across the Epstein document files — an extraordinary volume suggesting a relationship far deeper than social acquaintance. An email exchange uses the phrase 'pro or civilian?' — language that appears to distinguish between women paid for sexual services and women who are not.",
            epsteinLink:"400+ mentions across Epstein files. 'Pro or civilian?' email exchange documented. Named across multiple documents suggesting sustained engagement with the network.",
            significance:"400 mentions. 'Pro or civilian?' — that phrase, in the context of Epstein's network, has one plausible interpretation. The volume of documentation and the specificity of that language distinguish Tisch from mere social acquaintances.",
            desc:"Steven Tisch is the co-owner of the New York Giants NFL franchise and a film producer (Forrest Gump, American History X). He appears over 400 times across the Epstein document files — a frequency suggesting sustained, substantive engagement with the network. An email exchange in the files includes the phrase 'pro or civilian?' — a distinction that, in the documented context of Epstein's operation, appears to refer to whether women in the network were paid for sexual services.",
            evidence:"400+ mentions in Epstein document files. 'Pro or civilian?' email exchange. NFL team co-owner. Film producer.",
            link:"400 mentions. 'Pro or civilian?' Two data points that together require explanation. None has been publicly offered."},

        {id:"wasserman",label:"Casey Wasserman",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"WASSERMAN MEDIA / LA 2028",role:"LA Olympics Head · Sports Agency",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Chairman of Wasserman Media Group and head of the Los Angeles 2028 Olympics organizing committee. 2003 emails document flirtatious correspondence with Ghislaine Maxwell — a relationship that places the future Olympics director in Maxwell's operational social network.",
            epsteinLink:"2003 flirtatious email exchange with Maxwell documented. Named in Epstein files. Maxwell social circle connection.",
            significance:"The man directing America's next Olympics was in flirtatious correspondence with the woman who groomed trafficking victims. The emails are in the federal record.",
            desc:"Casey Wasserman is the chairman of Wasserman Media Group and leads the organizing committee for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. His 2003 flirtatious email exchange with Ghislaine Maxwell is documented in the Epstein files — a relationship that places one of America's most prominent sports executives in Maxwell's personal social network during her operational period.",
            evidence:"2003 Maxwell flirtatious emails documented in Epstein files. LA 2028 Olympics chair confirmed.",
            link:"Flirtatious emails with the woman who groomed trafficking victims. Now running the Olympics. The emails exist."},

        {id:"mort_z",label:"Mort Zuckerman",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"NY DAILY NEWS / US NEWS",role:"Media Mogul",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Real estate billionaire and media owner (New York Daily News, US News & World Report) named in Epstein's contact files. His position as a major New York media owner places him at the intersection of the media suppression pattern documented across the network — where owners and executives with Epstein connections controlled outlets that could have exposed him.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. New York media and real estate elite social circuit overlap. Media ownership creates structural conflict with accountability reporting.",
            significance:"A media owner in Epstein's contact book. The pattern of media executives, owners, and personalities throughout the network — and the consistent failure of major media to expose Epstein — is one of the most significant structural patterns in the entire case.",
            desc:"Mortimer Zuckerman is a real estate developer and former media owner who built and sold a media empire including the New York Daily News and US News & World Report. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His presence in the network follows the pattern of New York elite figures — real estate, media, finance — who inhabited the same social world as Epstein and Maxwell.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. NY Daily News and US News ownership. New York elite social circuit.",
            link:"A media owner in the contact book. The media that could have exposed Epstein was owned by people in his contact book. Correlation is not causation. But it is a pattern."},

        {id:"pritzker",label:"Tom Pritzker",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"HYATT HOTELS",role:"Hyatt Chairman",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$3.5B",
            intelRole:"Executive chairman of Hyatt Hotels Corporation and member of one of America's wealthiest families. Extensive documented correspondence in the Epstein files — a volume suggesting a relationship beyond casual acquaintance. The Pritzker family's political connections (J.B. Pritzker is Governor of Illinois) give this connection institutional significance.",
            epsteinLink:"Extensive correspondence documented in Epstein files. Hotel industry connection provided logistical infrastructure relevant to trafficking operations. Pritzker family political connections.",
            significance:"Extensive correspondence in the files, not merely a contact book entry. What was discussed in that correspondence has not been compelled.",
            desc:"Tom Pritzker is the executive chairman of Hyatt Hotels Corporation and a member of the Pritzker family, one of America's wealthiest dynasties. His cousin J.B. Pritzker is the Governor of Illinois. He has extensive documented correspondence in the Epstein files — not merely a contact book entry, but ongoing written communication whose contents have not been publicly disclosed.",
            evidence:"Extensive correspondence in Epstein files. Hyatt Hotels chairmanship. Pritzker family wealth and political connections.",
            link:"Extensive correspondence. Not just a name in a book — written communication across time. What it contains has not been revealed."},

        {id:"briatore",label:"Flavio Briatore",type:"suspicious",radius:15,
            agency:"F1 / ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Former F1 Team Principal · Billionaire",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Former Formula 1 team principal for Renault and Benetton, and one of the most prominent figures in European luxury and entertainment circles. Signed Epstein's birthday book. His social world — Formula 1, Monaco, superyachts, modeling — is the European equivalent of the New York elite that Epstein and Maxwell cultivated.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Naomi Campbell connection (Campbell and Briatore were romantically linked). European luxury social circuit overlap with Maxwell.",
            significance:"F1, Monaco, models, billionaires — Briatore's world and the Maxwell-Epstein social world are the same world. The birthday book signature places him there explicitly.",
            desc:"Flavio Briatore is the former Formula 1 team principal who managed the Benetton and Renault teams to multiple world championships, and a fixture of European billionaire social life through his restaurant empire, superyacht, and connections to Monaco and Ibiza. He signed Epstein's birthday book. He was romantically linked to Naomi Campbell, who was a documented member of Maxwell's social circle.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Naomi Campbell romantic connection. European luxury circuit. Named in files.",
            link:"He signed the birthday book. His social world was Maxwell's world. The Formula 1 circuit, Monaco, the models — it was the European arm of the same operation."},

        {id:"ari_emanuel",label:"Ari Emanuel",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"ENDEAVOR / WME",role:"Hollywood Super-Agent · Endeavor CEO",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"CEO of Endeavor and one of the most powerful agents in Hollywood history, representing major figures across entertainment, sports, and media. Signed Epstein's birthday book. His position at the center of Hollywood's power structure — the industry that most overlaps with Epstein's entertainment and modeling network — gives his connection particular significance.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Hollywood entertainment industry overlap with modeling pipeline and celebrity network Epstein cultivated. Endeavor controls major entertainment and media properties.",
            significance:"The most powerful agent in Hollywood signed a birthday card for a convicted sex trafficker. Hollywood's entertainment infrastructure — the modeling agencies, talent agencies, production companies — overlapped structurally with Epstein's recruitment network.",
            desc:"Ari Emanuel is the CEO of Endeavor, one of the most powerful entertainment, sports, and media conglomerates in the world, representing clients across every category of public life. He is the brother of former Chicago Mayor and Obama Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. He signed Epstein's birthday book. His entertainment world intersects directly with the modeling and celebrity infrastructure that formed Epstein's social and recruitment network.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Endeavor/WME Hollywood position. Named in files. Brother of Rahm Emanuel.",
            link:"The most powerful agent in Hollywood signed the birthday book. The entertainment industry was Epstein's hunting ground. Ari Emanuel was at its center."},

        {id:"stroll",label:"Lawrence Stroll",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"ASTON MARTIN F1",role:"F1 Team Owner · Fashion Billionaire",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Canadian billionaire who made his fortune in fashion (Tommy Hilfiger, Michael Kors) and now owns the Aston Martin Formula 1 team. Signed Epstein's birthday book. His fashion industry background connects him to the same modeling and luxury world that was Epstein's European operational environment.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Fashion industry background overlaps with modeling pipeline. F1 circuit overlap with Briatore and Stroll's European social world.",
            significance:"Fashion, F1, and billions — the same social ecosystem as Epstein's European operation. The birthday book signature is his documented connection.",
            desc:"Lawrence Stroll built his fortune through fashion licensing (Tommy Hilfiger, Michael Kors) and now owns the Aston Martin Formula 1 team. He signed Epstein's birthday book. His fashion industry roots connect him to the modeling world that was Epstein's European recruitment pipeline, and his F1 presence connects him to the Monaco-superyacht circuit operated by Briatore and other Epstein-adjacent figures.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Fashion industry (Tommy Hilfiger, Michael Kors). Aston Martin F1 team owner.",
            link:"Fashion money. Formula 1. The birthday book. He moved through exactly the social world Epstein and Maxwell cultivated."},

        {id:"blanchett",label:"Cate Blanchett",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"ENTERTAINMENT",role:"Actress",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Two-time Academy Award winner and one of the most acclaimed actresses of her generation. Signed Epstein's birthday book. Her presence in Epstein's social circle follows the pattern of A-list entertainment figures who provided cultural legitimacy to the network.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Entertainment elite social circuit.",
            significance:"An A-list actress in the birthday book. The cultural legitimacy that Epstein's social circle conferred — drawn from entertainment, academia, politics, and finance — was not accidental. It was the point.",
            desc:"Cate Blanchett has won two Academy Awards and is considered one of the finest actresses of her generation, with roles spanning Shakespeare, Peter Jackson's Middle-earth, and major Hollywood productions. She signed Epstein's birthday book. Her presence in the network follows the pattern of entertainment figures — Allen, Spacey, Copperfield, Jagger, Willis — who provided cultural cover for Epstein's social world.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Entertainment elite social network.",
            link:"An Oscar winner in the birthday book. The network needed cultural legitimacy. It collected it the same way it collected everything else — systematically, across every domain."},

        {id:"christy_turlington",label:"Christy Turlington",type:"suspicious",radius:13,
            agency:"MODELING",role:"Supermodel",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"One of the original supermodels of the 1980s-90s, who signed Epstein's birthday book. Her presence — along with Naomi Campbell — places the modeling industry's most recognized faces in direct documented contact with Epstein's social world. The modeling industry was his primary recruitment pipeline.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Modeling industry connection — the primary recruitment pipeline for the trafficking operation.",
            significance:"The most famous faces of the modeling industry in Epstein's social circle — while the same modeling industry was being used to recruit trafficking victims through Brunel and MC2.",
            desc:"Christy Turlington is one of the defining supermodels of the late 20th century, with a career spanning Vogue covers, major fashion campaigns, and public health advocacy. She signed Epstein's birthday book. Her presence alongside Naomi Campbell in Epstein's social world places the model industry's most recognizable faces in documented contact with the man who used the modeling industry as his primary trafficking pipeline through Jean-Luc Brunel.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Modeling industry prominence.",
            link:"A supermodel in the birthday book of the man who used the modeling industry to traffic children. The same industry. Different tiers of it."},

        {id:"itzhak_perlman",label:"Itzhak Perlman",type:"suspicious",radius:14,
            agency:"MUSIC",role:"Violinist",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Considered the greatest living violinist and one of the most culturally significant musicians of the 20th century. Signed Epstein's birthday book. His presence follows the pattern of cultural figures — across music, film, academia, and literature — whose social participation provided Epstein with the respectability that money alone could not purchase.",
            epsteinLink:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Cultural elite social circuit — Epstein deliberately cultivated connections across every domain of cultural prestige.",
            significance:"The greatest living violinist in the birthday book. Epstein collected cultural legitimacy the same way he collected everything else: systematically, across every category. The birthday book is a ledger of what he was buying.",
            desc:"Itzhak Perlman is universally considered the greatest living violinist, with a career spanning over sixty years at the highest levels of classical music. He signed Epstein's birthday book. His presence follows the established pattern of cultural figures — Blanchett, Jagger, Willis, Perlman — whose social presence gave Epstein's world the veneer of legitimate cultural participation.",
            evidence:"Signed Epstein birthday book. Cultural elite social network.",
            link:"The greatest violinist alive signed the birthday book. Cultural legitimacy was a currency Epstein collected alongside financial and political access. The birthday book is the receipt."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // OPERATIONAL STAFF
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"alessi",label:"Juan Alessi",type:"center",radius:13,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION",role:"Palm Beach Estate Manager",status:"TESTIFIED",
            intelRole:"Managed Epstein's Palm Beach estate for over a decade. Testified at the Maxwell trial in extraordinary detail — describing the parade of young girls, Maxwell's direct operational role in grooming them, and the household manual that instructed all staff to 'see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing.' One of the few insiders who actually testified under oath.",
            epsteinLink:"Estate manager who witnessed daily operations firsthand for over a decade. Testified about cleaning sex toys after visits, personally driving girls to the house, receiving instructions directly from both Epstein and Maxwell, and the systematic operation of the household.",
            significance:"Alessi's testimony is the most granular first-person account of how the operation functioned day-to-day. He estimated hundreds of girls came through the Palm Beach property during his tenure. His account confirms the industrial scale of what the 2008 NPA protected.",
            desc:"Juan Alessi managed Epstein's Palm Beach estate from the early 1990s through 2002. He testified at the Maxwell trial in 2021, providing extraordinarily detailed first-person testimony about the operation. He described driving young girls to the property, cleaning up after abuse sessions, receiving direct instructions from both Epstein and Maxwell, and a household manual that explicitly instructed all staff to 'see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing.' He estimated that hundreds of girls came through the property during his tenure. His testimony was among the most detailed and credible accounts of the Palm Beach operation's day-to-day functioning.",
            evidence:"Maxwell trial testimony (December 2021). Household manual (physical document). Personal account of driving victims to estate. Cleaning sex toys after visits (described under oath). Direct instructions from Maxwell. Estimated hundreds of victims at Palm Beach property. Manual instruction: 'see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing.'",
            link:"He drove the girls. He cleaned the rooms. He was given a manual that told him not to notice. Then he testified about all of it. He is the clearest window into what the operation actually looked like from inside."},

        {id:"rodriguez",label:"Alfredo Rodriguez",type:"center",radius:12,
            agency:"EPSTEIN ORGANIZATION",role:"Palm Beach Butler · Stole Black Book",status:"DECEASED — died in prison",
            intelRole:"Epstein's Palm Beach butler who took the most consequential action of any insider: he stole the black book — the master contact directory — and circled names of men he had personally witnessed with underage girls. He tried to sell it for $50,000, reportedly because he did not believe law enforcement would act. He was correct. He was convicted of obstruction. He died in prison. The men he circled are free.",
            epsteinLink:"Household staff with direct physical access to the most sensitive documents. Stole the black book. Circled the names of men he personally witnessed with underage girls at the property. His circled names represent the only first-person identification of participants by an eyewitness.",
            significance:"Rodriguez is the most tragic figure in the entire case. He had the evidence. He tried to use it — admittedly for money, but in a context where he believed authorities would do nothing otherwise. He was right about the authorities. He went to prison. He died there. The men whose names he circled, identified by an eyewitness, are free. That is the system's verdict.",
            desc:"Alfredo Rodriguez served as Epstein's Palm Beach butler. He stole Epstein's black book — the master contact directory containing 1,500+ names — and attempted to sell it for $50,000, reportedly motivated by the belief that law enforcement had no intention of pursuing the case. He had circled specific names in the book — men he had personally witnessed engaging with underage girls at the property. He was caught and convicted of obstruction of justice. He was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison. He died in prison of mesothelioma in 2015. The circled names have never been the subject of a formal investigation.",
            evidence:"Stole black book (physical evidence). Circled names of men witnessed with underage girls (eyewitness identification). Convicted of obstruction of justice. Sentenced 18 months federal prison. Died of mesothelioma in prison 2015. Circled names identified but never investigated as a class.",
            link:"He stole the evidence. He circled the guilty. He went to prison. He died there. The men he named are free. The system that put him in prison for trying to expose the operation never prosecuted anyone he identified."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // ADDITIONAL POLITICAL — US
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"schumer",label:"Chuck Schumer",type:"possibly",radius:22,
            agency:"US SENATE",role:"Senate Majority Leader",status:"NAMED IN BLACK BOOK",
            intelRole:"US Senate Majority Leader and the most powerful Democrat in the Senate. Named in Epstein's black book. His presence in the book — as the leader of one of two chambers of Congress — represents the network's penetration of legislative power at its apex.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein's black book. Senate Majority Leader — the highest Democratic position in the legislative branch.",
            significance:"The Senate Majority Leader is in the black book. Congress has never opened a formal investigation into the Epstein network. The presence of congressional leaders in the black book is one possible explanation for that institutional failure.",
            desc:"Chuck Schumer has served as US Senate Majority Leader since 2021 and was Senate Minority Leader before that, making him the most powerful Democrat in the legislative branch for the better part of a decade. He is named in Epstein's black book. Congress has never opened a formal investigation into the Epstein network, its membership, or the series of institutional failures that enabled it.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein black book. Senate Majority Leader confirmed. Congressional inaction on Epstein investigation.",
            link:"The Senate Majority Leader is in the black book. Congress never investigated. Whether those two facts are related is the question nobody in Congress has been willing to ask."},

        {id:"kerry",label:"John Kerry",type:"possibly",radius:22,
            agency:"US STATE DEPARTMENT",role:"Secretary of State · Senator · Presidential Nominee",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"US Secretary of State (2013-2017) and 2004 Democratic presidential nominee. Named in Epstein's contact files. His presence in the network follows the established pattern of senior Democratic officials — Clinton, Gore, Berger, Shalala — in Epstein's contact files.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Senior Democratic official in the same network as Clinton and other Democratic figures.",
            significance:"The Secretary of State in the contact files. The network's penetration of the State Department — via Kerry, with Kissinger in the black book — spans decades of American foreign policy leadership.",
            desc:"John Kerry served as US Secretary of State under President Obama from 2013 to 2017 and was the Democratic presidential nominee in 2004. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His presence follows the pattern of senior Democratic officials throughout the network.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Secretary of State confirmed. 2004 presidential nominee.",
            link:"The Secretary of State in the contact files. From Kissinger to Kerry — the network had a presence at the top of American foreign policy across five decades."},

        {id:"gore",label:"Al Gore",type:"possibly",radius:26,
            agency:"US VICE PRESIDENCY",role:"Vice President · Nobel Laureate",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"45th Vice President of the United States under Clinton and 2000 presidential candidate. Named in Epstein's contact files. His presence alongside Clinton's other close associates — Burkle, Berger, Shalala — suggests a network penetration of the entire Clinton-era power structure.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Clinton administration overlap at the Vice Presidential level. Clinton-era power network.",
            significance:"The Vice President in the contact files. The Clinton administration's senior leadership appears extensively across the Epstein network — the President flew on the plane 26 times, the Vice President is in the contact files, the NSA is in the contact files, the HHS Secretary is in the contact files. That is not a coincidence.",
            desc:"Al Gore served as the 45th Vice President of the United States under Bill Clinton from 1993 to 2001 and was the Democratic presidential nominee in 2000, winning the popular vote. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His presence follows the pattern of Clinton-era senior officials throughout the network.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Vice President under Clinton confirmed. 2000 presidential nominee. Nobel Peace Prize.",
            link:"The Vice President in the contact files. The President flew on the plane 26 times. The NSA stole classified documents. The entire senior Clinton national security apparatus appears across this network."},

        {id:"powell",label:"Colin Powell",type:"possibly",radius:26,
            agency:"US STATE DEPARTMENT",role:"Secretary of State · Four-Star General · NSA",status:"DECEASED (2021)",
            intelRole:"Four-star general, National Security Adviser, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and Secretary of State — one of the most decorated careers in American military and civilian service. Named in Epstein's black book. Died in October 2021, foreclosing any possibility of questioning.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein's black book. Four-star general and Secretary of State in the same contact directory as senior intelligence officials, world leaders, and billionaires.",
            significance:"The chairman of the Joint Chiefs and Secretary of State in Epstein's black book. Powell's career spanned the highest levels of both military and civilian government. What he knew, and whether it was relevant to the network, died with him.",
            desc:"Colin Powell served as National Security Adviser under Reagan, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs under Bush and Clinton, and Secretary of State under George W. Bush — one of the most distinguished military and civilian careers in American history. He presented the US government's case for invading Iraq at the UN in 2003, a presentation he later described as a 'blot' on his record. He is named in Epstein's black book. He died in October 2021.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein black book. Four-star general confirmed. Secretary of State confirmed. NSA confirmed. Deceased October 2021.",
            link:"America's most decorated soldier-diplomat in the black book. Died before any investigation reached him. Another name foreclosed."},

        {id:"gingrich",label:"Newt Gingrich",type:"possibly",radius:20,
            agency:"US HOUSE",role:"Speaker of the House",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Speaker of the House from 1995 to 1999, and the architect of the Republican Revolution of 1994. Named in Epstein's contact files. His presence alongside Democratic congressional leaders — Schumer in the black book, Mitchell named under oath — suggests the network's penetration of Congress was bipartisan.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Speaker of the House during the peak Clinton-Epstein period. Bipartisan congressional presence across the network.",
            significance:"The Republican Speaker alongside the Democratic Senate Majority Leader in Epstein's files. The congressional inaction on Epstein is bipartisan. So is the contact list.",
            desc:"Newt Gingrich served as Speaker of the House from 1995 to 1999, leading the Republican takeover of Congress in 1994 and presiding over the Clinton impeachment proceedings. He is named in Epstein's contact files. His presence alongside Senate Majority Leader Schumer illustrates the bipartisan nature of the network's congressional penetration.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Speaker of the House confirmed. Republican Revolution architect.",
            link:"The Republican Speaker in the files. The Democratic Senate leader in the black book. Congress never investigated. Both parties' leadership appears across the network."},

        {id:"bloomberg",label:"Michael Bloomberg",type:"suspicious",radius:30,
            agency:"BLOOMBERG LP",role:"NYC Mayor · Media Billionaire",status:"NAMED IN BLACK BOOK",networth:"$106B",
            intelRole:"Mayor of New York City from 2002 to 2013 — the entire post-conviction period during which Epstein operated freely in Manhattan — and founder of Bloomberg LP, one of the most powerful financial data and media companies in the world. Named in Epstein's black book.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein's black book. Mayor of New York throughout Epstein's post-conviction Manhattan operation. Bloomberg's media company covered financial news intersecting with Epstein's financial network.",
            significance:"The mayor of the city where Epstein trafficked children — throughout the years Epstein operated post-conviction — is in the black book. Bloomberg LP controls financial information. The coincidence of the mayor and the media company both appearing in the Epstein orbit during Epstein's New York operations has never been examined.",
            desc:"Michael Bloomberg served as Mayor of New York City from 2002 to 2013, the precise period during which Epstein, post-conviction, operated his trafficking network from his Manhattan townhouse with relative impunity. Bloomberg is also the founder of Bloomberg LP, one of the most powerful financial information and media companies in the world. He is named in Epstein's black book.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein black book. NYC Mayor 2002-2013 — entire post-conviction Manhattan operation period. Bloomberg LP financial media empire.",
            link:"The mayor of the city where Epstein trafficked children, for the entire post-conviction period, in the black book. The financial media empire that covered Wall Street also covered some of the men paying Epstein. The mayor never investigated."},

        {id:"perlmutter",label:"Ike Perlmutter",type:"suspicious",radius:18,
            agency:"MARVEL / PALM BEACH",role:"Marvel Chairman · Trump Advisor",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$5B",
            intelRole:"Reclusive chairman of Marvel Entertainment and one of Donald Trump's most trusted informal advisers — reportedly providing unsolicited guidance on Veterans Affairs policy. Palm Beach neighbor of both Epstein and Trump. Operates in the same Palm Beach social circuit that connects Epstein, Trump, and the southern Florida elite.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Palm Beach neighbor of Epstein and Trump. Same social circuit that included Mar-a-Lago, the Palm Beach Country Club, and the concentrated billionaire community where Epstein operated his Florida base.",
            significance:"The Palm Beach social world — Trump, Epstein, Perlmutter — is geographically concentrated and socially dense. Epstein's Palm Beach estate was at the center of his trafficking operation. Trump's resort was where Giuffre was recruited. Perlmutter's presence in the same community, in the files, and as Trump's intimate adviser connects these threads.",
            desc:"Ike Perlmutter is the chairman of Marvel Entertainment and one of the most reclusive billionaires in America. He is an intimate of Donald Trump's Palm Beach circle, reportedly providing informal advice on Veterans Affairs and other policy matters despite holding no official government role. He is a Palm Beach neighbor of both Epstein and Trump. He is named in Epstein's files. The Palm Beach community — Mar-a-Lago, Epstein's estate on El Brillo Way, and the surrounding billionaire enclave — was the social world all three inhabited.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Palm Beach neighbor of Epstein and Trump confirmed. Informal Trump advisor on VA (documented). Marvel Entertainment chairmanship.",
            link:"Palm Beach. The files. Trump's secret advisor. Epstein's neighbor. The same few square miles where Giuffre was recruited and children were trafficked."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // ADDITIONAL POLITICAL — INTERNATIONAL
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"sarkozy",label:"Nicolas Sarkozy",type:"suspicious",radius:28,
            agency:"FRENCH REPUBLIC",role:"Former President of France",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"President of France from 2007 to 2012. Named in Epstein's files. France was a primary operational base for the European wing of Epstein's network — his Paris apartment, Jean-Luc Brunel's MC2 Model Management operating from Paris, and Maxwell's extensive French social connections all operated within French jurisdiction without any French law enforcement action.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. French head of state during the period Epstein operated his Paris apartment and Brunel ran MC2 from Paris. Maxwell's Paris social circle included multiple senior French political figures.",
            significance:"The President of France while Epstein and Brunel operated freely in Paris. France was a primary European node of the trafficking network. French law enforcement took no action until after Epstein's 2019 arrest — more than a decade after the operation's French activities were documented.",
            desc:"Nicolas Sarkozy served as President of France from 2007 to 2012. He is named in Epstein's contact files. France served as a major operational base for Epstein's European network — his Paris apartment on Avenue Foch was a property he maintained throughout his operational period, Jean-Luc Brunel's MC2 Model Management recruited from Paris and South America while operating from France, and Ghislaine Maxwell's French social circle was extensive. French law enforcement opened no investigation until after Epstein's 2019 re-arrest.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. French President during operational period confirmed. Paris apartment documented. Brunel/MC2 Paris operations documented. Maxwell French social connections.",
            link:"The president of the country where Epstein kept an apartment, where Brunel ran his modeling recruitment operation, where Maxwell had her deepest social roots — in the contact files. French authorities did nothing for over a decade."},

        {id:"albert_monaco",label:"Prince Albert of Monaco",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"MONACO",role:"Sovereign Prince of Monaco",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Sovereign ruler of Monaco — the tax haven and luxury enclave that serves as the permanent social venue for the world's wealthiest figures. A documented member of Ghislaine Maxwell's social circle. Named in Epstein's contact files. Monaco's status as a sovereign state outside standard European legal frameworks made it relevant to the network's financial and social operations.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein contact files. Member of Maxwell's close social circle. Monaco's role as European luxury hub and financial haven intersects with the network's geography.",
            significance:"The sovereign of Monaco — where billionaires, royals, and international figures congregate in a jurisdiction with minimal financial transparency — in Maxwell's social circle and Epstein's contact files. Monaco's governance and financial frameworks were structurally relevant to how the network moved money and people.",
            desc:"Prince Albert II has been the sovereign ruler of Monaco since 2005. Monaco is the world's most densely populated sovereign state and a permanent gathering point for global billionaires, royalty, and the international elite — including many figures in the Epstein network. Albert is named in Epstein's contact files and was documented as part of Ghislaine Maxwell's social circle. His presence in the network is consistent with Monaco's function as a node in the European elite social infrastructure that Maxwell maintained for Epstein.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein contact files. Maxwell social circle membership documented. Sovereign ruler of Monaco confirmed.",
            link:"The sovereign of Monaco, where Epstein's social world gathered. In the files. In Maxwell's circle. Another crown."},

        {id:"olmert",label:"Ehud Olmert",type:"suspicious",radius:20,
            agency:"STATE OF ISRAEL",role:"Former PM of Israel",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Prime Minister of Israel from 2006 to 2009 — the period immediately surrounding Epstein's 2008 conviction and the negotiation of the NPA. Named in Epstein's files. His tenure coincided with the critical period when the Israeli state's relationship to the Epstein operation — through Mossad, through Wexner, through Barak — was most active.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Israeli PM during the 2008 NPA period. Wexner/Mega Group Israeli connections active during his tenure. Barak (Defense Minister under Olmert) visited Epstein 36+ times.",
            significance:"The Israeli PM in office when Epstein received the most consequential legal protection in the case. Barak — who visited Epstein 36+ times — served as Defense Minister under Olmert. The Israeli state's senior leadership during the NPA period had documented Epstein connections at the PM and Defense Minister level simultaneously.",
            desc:"Ehud Olmert served as Prime Minister of Israel from 2006 to 2009, with Ehud Barak serving as his Defense Minister from 2007. During this period — which includes the negotiation and signing of the 2008 NPA that protected Epstein and all co-conspirators — Barak was simultaneously visiting Epstein's Manhattan townhouse. Olmert was later convicted of bribery in unrelated Israeli corruption cases. He is named in Epstein's files.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Israeli PM 2006-2009 confirmed. Barak as Defense Minister during this period. NPA signed during his tenure. Later convicted of bribery.",
            link:"The PM whose Defense Minister visited Epstein 36 times, during whose tenure the NPA was signed. Later convicted of bribery. In the files."},

        {id:"peres",label:"Shimon Peres",type:"suspicious",radius:24,
            agency:"STATE OF ISRAEL",role:"Former President · PM of Israel",status:"DECEASED (2016)",
            intelRole:"President of Israel (2007-2014) and twice Prime Minister, with a career spanning the entirety of Israel's intelligence services development. Attended Robert Maxwell's state funeral in Israel in 1991 — the event that confirmed Maxwell's status as a state-level Mossad asset. Named in Epstein's files. His lifelong proximity to Mossad operations gives his Epstein connection intelligence significance.",
            epsteinLink:"Attended Robert Maxwell's Israeli state funeral (1991) — attended by Mossad and Shin Bet chiefs. Named in Epstein files. President of Israel during a significant portion of the Epstein operation's peak years.",
            significance:"He attended the funeral of the man who recruited Epstein into intelligence, a funeral that was itself confirmation of Maxwell's intelligence status. He is named in the files of the man Maxwell recruited. The chain — Maxwell's funeral, Mossad chiefs present, Peres present — is documented.",
            desc:"Shimon Peres served twice as Prime Minister of Israel and as President from 2007 to 2014, with a political career spanning over six decades and direct oversight of Israel's defense and intelligence infrastructure throughout. He attended the Israeli state funeral of Robert Maxwell in November 1991 — an event attended by the heads of Mossad and Shin Bet, confirming Maxwell's status as a valued state intelligence asset. He is named in Epstein's contact files.",
            evidence:"Robert Maxwell funeral attendance confirmed (1991 — Mossad/Shin Bet chiefs present). Named in Epstein files. President and PM of Israel confirmed. Lifelong proximity to Israeli intelligence confirmed.",
            link:"He attended the funeral of the man who recruited Epstein. Mossad's chiefs were there. He is in the files of the man they recruited. The chain is documented. Its full extent is not."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // MODELING PIPELINE
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"gerald_marie",label:"Gerald Marie",type:"suspicious",radius:16,
            agency:"ELITE MODEL MANAGEMENT",role:"European Director · Multiple Assault Allegations",status:"UNDER INVESTIGATION",
            intelRole:"Ran Elite Model Management's European operations under John Casablancas for decades, making him one of the most powerful figures in the European modeling industry. Multiple former models have made sexual assault allegations against him spanning decades. A French criminal investigation was opened in 2020. Brunel's direct professional colleague and the European operational counterpart in the same modeling pipeline.",
            epsteinLink:"Ran Elite's European operations while Brunel ran MC2 — both agencies fed into the same network. Casablancas built the agency, Marie ran the European arm, Brunel ran MC2 with Epstein's money. The modeling pipeline has multiple operational nodes; Marie ran one of them.",
            significance:"The European director of the world's most powerful modeling agency, with his own sexual assault allegations, operating in the same industry as Brunel's MC2 — the agency Epstein funded. The modeling industry's exploitation pattern was institutional, not individual.",
            desc:"Gerald Marie ran Elite Model Management's European operations under Casablancas for decades, based primarily in Paris — the same city where Brunel operated MC2 and where Epstein maintained his Avenue Foch apartment. Multiple former models have alleged that Marie sexually assaulted them during professional meetings and at industry events spanning decades. A French criminal investigation was opened in 2020 following a BBC documentary. He denies all allegations.",
            evidence:"Elite Model Management Europe directorship. Multiple assault allegations from former models (BBC documentary 2020). French criminal investigation opened 2020. Casablancas and Brunel professional connections.",
            link:"He ran the European arm of the same modeling pipeline that Brunel used to recruit for Epstein. His own assault allegations mirror Brunel's. The industry's exploitation pattern ran from Casablancas to Marie to Brunel — the same pipeline, three men, one system."},

        {id:"zampolli",label:"Paolo Zampolli",type:"suspicious",radius:13,
            agency:"ID MODEL MANAGEMENT",role:"Model Agent · Introduced Melania to Trump",status:"NAMED IN FILES",
            intelRole:"Italian model agent based in New York who introduced Melania Knauss to Donald Trump at a party in 1998 — the introduction that led to their marriage. Operated in the same New York modeling circles as Brunel and Casablancas. Named in Epstein's social circle.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. New York modeling industry overlap with Brunel and Casablancas. Introduced Melania Knauss to Trump.",
            significance:"The model agent who introduced the future First Lady to the future President operated in the same New York modeling world as Epstein's primary recruiter Jean-Luc Brunel. The modeling industry's social infrastructure connected these figures in ways whose full extent has never been mapped.",
            desc:"Paolo Zampolli is an Italian-American model agent who ran ID Model Management in New York. He is credited with introducing Melania Knauss to Donald Trump at a party in 1998. He operated in the New York modeling world that included Jean-Luc Brunel, John Casablancas, and the recruitment pipeline that fed Epstein's operation. He is named in Epstein's files and social circle.",
            evidence:"Named in Epstein files. Melania-Trump introduction documented and publicly acknowledged. New York modeling industry contemporaneous with Brunel.",
            link:"He introduced the future president to the future first lady. He operated in the same modeling world as Epstein's recruiter. He is in the files. The modeling world's social connections run through every level of this story."},

        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════
        // ADDITIONAL MEDIA / CELEBRITY
        // ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

        {id:"diller",label:"Barry Diller",type:"suspicious",radius:22,
            agency:"IAC / EXPEDIA",role:"Media Mogul · Hollywood Executive",status:"NAMED IN FILES",networth:"$4B",
            intelRole:"One of the most powerful executives in Hollywood history — ran Paramount and Fox before building IAC and the modern internet entertainment industry. Named in Epstein's files and documented as part of Ghislaine Maxwell's social circle. His decades-long career at the center of American media and entertainment gave him structural proximity to the same industries Epstein exploited.",
            epsteinLink:"Named in Epstein files. Maxwell social circle overlap
